Vol. 57 No. 147 Thursday, July 30, 1992  p 33754 (Rule)                 1/5857  
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

40 CFR Part 82 

[FRL-4158-2]

Protection of Stratospheric Ozone

AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 

ACTION: Final rule. 

SUMMARY: With this action, EPA promulgates stratospheric ozone 
protection regulations (40 CFR part 82) required under title 
VI of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, Public Law 101-549. 
Today's action promulgates regulations implementing the 1992 
and later requirements of section 604, as well as the related 
provisions of sections 603, 607 and 616, in a manner consistent 
with the United States' continuing obligations under the Montreal 
Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer as revised. 

   Through this action, EPA (1) Apportions baseline allowances 
to produce or import ozone depleting substances to companies 
that produced or imported certain ozone depleting substances 
in the baseline years; (2) allocates decreasing amounts of those 
allowances to the companies according to the phaseout schedule 
prescribed by section 604; (3) applies an 18-month cap from 
July 1, 1991, to December 31, 1992, on production and consumption 
as required under the Protocol; (4) permits transfers of allowances 
provided the transferor's remaining allowances are reduced by 
the amount it transferred plus one percent of the amount transferred; 
(5) permits production in excess of the amount authorized by 
the original allocation of allowances in order to supply developing 
countries that are operating under Article 5 of the Protocol, 
so long as producers provide adequate assurances that the production 
supplied to the developing country will not be reexported; (6) 
permits transfers of allowable production with other Protocol 
Parties under certain conditions; (7) changes procedures to 
facilitate the transformation of carbon tetrachloride without 
requiring extensive trading of allowances; (8) imposes minimal 
reporting and recordkeeping requirements, including those needed 
to include several newly regulated chemicals in the phaseout 
programs, as well as recordkeeping and reporting requirements 
by companies that transform carbon tetrachloride; and (9) requires 
that companies that produced controlled substances as by-products 
and did not destroy them with maximum available control technology 
(MACT) in 1989 but did not report their production in response 
to the section 114 information request in the November 26, 1990 
Federal Register supply EPA with this information within 45 
days of the publication of this document. 

EFFECTIVE DATE: January 1, 1992.

ADDRESSES: Materials relevant to this rulemaking are contained 
in Air Docket No. A-91-50. The docket is located at U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (LE-131), 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 
20460 in room M-1500, First Floor Waterside Mall and is open 
from 8:30 a.m. until noon and from 1:30 p.m. until 3:30 p.m. 
Monday through Friday. A reasonable fee may be charged by EPA 
for copying docket materials. 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Martha Dye, Stratospheric Ozone 
Protection Branch, Global Change Division, Office of Atmospheric 
and Indoor Air Programs, Office of Air and Radiation, 6202J, 
401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 233-9093.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 

Table of Contents 
I. Background 
A. Overview of the Ozone Depletion Problem 
B. Scientific Evidence of Ozone Depletion 
C. Past Efforts to Control Ozone Depleting Substances 

  1. Vienna Convention and 1987 Montreal Protocol 

  2. 1988 Final Rule 

  a. Overview 

  b. Baseline Allowances 

  c. Interrelationship of Consumption and Production Allowances 

  d. Additional Allowances 

  e. Reporting Requirements 

  3. 1990 Revision of Montreal Protocol 

  4. The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 

  5. Temporary Final Rule 
II. Statutory Authority 
III. September 30, 1991 Proposal 
IV. Summary of Changes to Proposed Rule 
A. Definitions 

  1. Importer 

  2. Production 

  a. Exemption for Immediately-Destroyed By-Products that are 
    Controlled Substances 

  b. Used and Entirely Consumed (Except for Trace Quantities) 

  3. Transformation-Distinction Between Transformation and Destruction 
B. Baseline Allowances 

  1. Class II Baseline 

  2. Selection of Baseline Year and Baseline Allowances for 
    Chemicals Added Later 

  3. Method of Calculation of Baseline Allowances 
C. Implementation of Exemptions to the Phaseout 

  1. Exemption for Immediately-Destroyed By-Products that are 
    Controlled Substances 

  a. The Exemption 

  b. First Come, First Served Policy and Interplay with the 
    Montreal Protocol 

  c. Definition of Maximum Available Control Technology 

  d. Criteria for Determining if Controlled Substances are Unavoidable, 
    Coincidental By-Products 

  e. Interpretation of "Immediately Contained and Destroyed 
    by the Producer" 

  (i) Immediately Contained and Destroyed 

  (ii) Destruction By the Producer: On-Site versus Off-Site 

  f. Extension of the Exemption 

  2. Exemption for De Minimis By-Product Production of Controlled 
    Substances in Groups I-III 

  3. Other Exemptions 

  a. Halons 

  b. Methyl Chloroform 

  c. Analytical and Research Purposes 
D. Basic Prohibitions 

  1. Compliance 

  2. Consumption Limits 
E. General Stringency of Regulations and Phaseout Schedule 
F. Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements 

  1. Daily Production Records 

  2. Class II Reporting 
G. Exchanges 

  1. Domestic Trading-Environmental Offset 

  a. Offset Amount 

  b. Intra-Company Trading 

  c. Transformer Trading 

  2. International Trades 

  a. The Proposal 

  b. Trades from the U.S. to other Montreal Protocol Parties 

  c. Trades to the U.S. from other Montreal Protocol Parties 
H. Obtaining Additional Allowances-Transformation

  1. Carbon Tetrachloride Transformation 

  a. Summary of today's Final Rule 

  b. The Proposal 

  c. Proposed System versus 1991 System 

  d. Allowances for the Production of Feedstocks 

  e. Written Contracts and Commitments to Transform 

  f. Year-End Problem 

  g. Liability if Production for Feedstock Exceeds Transformation 

  h. Provision for the Export of Carbon Tetrachloride 

  i. Recordkeeping and Reporting for the Carbon Tetrachloride 
    Transformation System 

  2. Transformation of Other Controlled Substances 

  3. Provision for the Import of Feedstock Carbon Tetrachloride 

  4. Transformation in Foreign Countries 
I. Obtaining Additional Allowances-Exports 

  1. Proof that Exports to Article 5 Countries are not Reexported 

  2. Exports to Non-Party Complying Nations 
J. Comments on the Impact of the Action 
V. Section-by-Section Description 
A. Authority Citation 
B. Section 82.1-Purpose and Scope
C. Section 82.2-Effective Date 
D. Section 82.3-Definitions 
E. Section 82.4-Prohibitions 
F. Sections 82.5 and 82.6-Apportionment of Baseline Production 
    and Consumption Allowances 
G. Section 82.7-Granting and Phased Reduction of Allowances 
    for Class I Controlled Substances 
H. Section 82.8-Grant and Phased Reduction of Allowances for 
    Class II Controlled Substances 
I. Section 82.9-Availability of Additional Production Allowances 
J. Section 82.10 Availability of Additional Consumption Allowances 
K. Section 82.11 Exports to Article 5 Parties 
L. Section 82.12 Exchanges 
M. Section 82.13 Recordkeeping and Reporting 

  1. Producers 

  a. Daily Recordkeeping 

  b. Production Reports 

  2. Importers 

  a. Daily Recordkeeping 

  b. Import Reports 

  3. Exporters 

  4. Transformers 

  5. Class II Controlled Substances 
VI. Impact of Action
VII. Additional Information 
A. Executive Order 12291 
B. Regulatory Flexibility Act 
C. Paperwork Reduction Act 

I. Background 


A. Overview of the Ozone Depletion Problem 

   Stratospheric ozone shields the earth's surface from dangerous 
ultraviolet (UV-B) radiation. In response to growing scientific 
evidence, a national and international consensus has developed 
that certain human-made halocarbons deplete stratospheric ozone. 
To the extent depletion occurs, it is believed that penetration 
of UV-B radiation will increase, resulting in potential health 
and environmental harm including increased incidence of certain 
skin cancers and cataracts, suppression of the immune system, 
damage to crops and aquatic organisms, increased formation of 
ground-level ozone, and increased weathering of outdoor plastics. 
   Different chlorine- and bromine-containing substances vary 
in their potential to deplete stratospheric ozone. The fully 
halogenated chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), halons, and carbon tetrachloride, 
for example, are such stable molecules that they reach the stratosphere 
largely intact and only there are degraded by high energy solar 
radiation. The chlorine or bromine from these chemicals is then 
released in forms (or chemical precursors of forms) which are 
extremely effective in depleting ozone. In contrast, methyl 
chloroform has a substantially shorter atmospheric lifetime 
but is used in such large quantities that it too contributes 
significantly to total atmospheric chlorine levels. Hydrochlorofluorocarbons 
(HCFCs) also have relatively short atmospheric lifetimes and 
are only beginning to be introduced as substitutes for fully 
halogenated CFCs. Future use of HCFCs must be carefully evaluated 
on the basis of both their potential volumes and their atmospheric 
lifetimes. The relative ability of a substance to contribute 
to ozone depletion is its "ozone depletion potential." 

B. Scientific Evidence of Ozone Depletion 

   The initial hypothesis linking CFCs and depletion of the 
stratospheric ozone layer was published in 1974. A paper by 
research scientists Molina and Rowland suggested that industrial 
halocarbons could react in the stratosphere and destroy stratospheric 
ozone. 
   Between 1974 and 1987, the scientific community made remarkable 
advances in understanding atmospheric processes affecting stratospheric 
ozone. In response to this growing threat, the international 
community negotiated the Montreal Protocol, which limited the 
production and consumption of a narrow set of ozone depleting 
substances. 
   Significant ozone loss was first reported over Antarctica 
in 1985. In 1987, an international team of scientists collected 
and analyzed evidence linking the Antarctic ozone hole to ozone 
depleting chemicals. This report also suggested that some depletion 
of global ozone levels had already occurred (Ozone Trends Panel 
Report: Executive Summary, 1988). In response, the Parties to 
the Protocol agreed to accelerate the assessment process required 
under Article 6 of the Protocol. The results of the initial 
Protocol assessment were issued in 1989 and further heightened 
concern that chlorine- and bromine-containing substances had 
already led to a greater depletion of stratospheric ozone than 
had been expected. 
   This scientific assessment resulted in a call to strengthen 
national and international controls on ozone depleting chemicals. 
Adjustments adopted by the Parties to the Protocol in June of 
1990 and Amendments to the Clean Air Act signed into law in 
November 1990 require a full phaseout of the most significant 
ozone depleting chemicals by the turn of the century. 
   The process of scientific review has continued since the 
1989 Protocol assessments. In April 1991 the Executive Summary 
of the second assessment report was issued. This report stated 
that ozone depletion has occurred in the summertime over northern 
mid-latitudes. This new information will be examined in the 
context of possible further amendments to the Protocol in 1992 
and in reference to a petition for a faster phaseout of controlled 
substances that EPA received under section 606 of the Clean 
Air Act on December 3, 1991 from the Natural Resources Defense 
Council, Friends of the Earth and the Environmental Defense 
Fund. 

C. Past Efforts to Control Ozone Depleting Substances 


1. Vienna Convention and 1987 Montreal Protocol 

   Recognizing the global nature of this issue, EPA participated 
in negotiations organized by the United Nations Environment 
Programme (UNEP) to develop an international agreement to protect 
the ozone layer. These negotiations successfully concluded with 
the signing of the Vienna Convention in 1985 and the signing 
of the original Montreal Protocol in 1987. Currently, 81 nations 
representing over 90 percent of the world's consumption of CFCs 
and halons are Parties to the Protocol (see appendix C to subpart 
A of 40 CFR part 82). 
   The 1987 Protocol required nations who join to restrict their 
production and consumption (defined as production plus imports 
minus exports of bulk chemicals) of CFC-11, CFC-12, CFC-113, 
CFC-114, and CFC-115 and halons 1211, 1301 and 2402. It did 
not regulate specific uses or emissions of these "controlled 
substances," but limited their production and importation instead. 
It also did not place limits on each of the substances, but 
instead grouped the substances (i.e., the CFCs listed above 
were placed in Group I and the halons were placed in Group II), 
and placed separate limits on the total ozone depletion potential 
(ODP) of each group. The Protocol thus allowed a nation to change 
the mix of controlled substances within each group that it produced 
and consumed, so long as the total ODP of the mix did not exceed 
the specified limits. The phrase "calculated level" was used 
to refer to this weighting of controlled substances based on 
their relative ODP. 
   As originally drafted, the Protocol called for annual production 
and consumption of the five most ozone depleting CFCs (i.e., 
Group I substances) and halons (i.e., Group II substances) to 
be frozen at 1986 levels beginning July 1, 1989 and January 
1, 1992, respectively, and for CFCs to be reduced to 50 percent 
of 1986 levels by 1998. It also allowed for limited increases 
in production beyond the caps described above for the purposes 
of supplying developing country Parties that are operating under 
Article 5 of the Protocol or trading allowable levels of production 
("industrial rationalization") between Parties. In addition, 
the Protocol provided that after January 1, 1993 only exports 
to Parties would be subtracted from a Party's consumption, and 
it banned imports of controlled substances from nations which 
neither join nor comply with the Protocol. 

2. 1988 Final Rule 

   a. Overview. EPA promulgated regulations implementing the 
requirements of the 1987 Protocol through a system of tradeable 
allowances. The Agency ensured compliance with the Protocol 
by creating production and consumption allowances equal to the 
quantity of production and consumption allowed under the Protocol. 
The Protocol's separate treatment of Group I and Group II controlled 
substances was reflected in separate allowances for each group 
of substances. Similarly, the Protocol's application of limits 
to the ODP of the groups of controlled substances ("calculated 
level") was carried over into the definition of allowances. 
Thus, allowances were specified in terms of a calculated level 
of a particular group of controlled substances, so that holders 
of allowances could select any mix of controlled substances 
within each group, provided that the total calculated level 
of the mix did not exceed the calculated levels of the allowances 
held. 
   b. Baseline allowances. EPA apportioned allowances to producers 
and importers of controlled substances based on their 1986 levels 
of production and imports. It then allocated percentages of 
the allowances according to the reduction schedule specified 
in the Protocol. For example, for the control periods during 
which CFC production and consumption were to be frozen at 1986 
levels, EPA allocated 100 percent of baseline allowances. 
   c. Interrelationship of Consumption and Production Allowances. 
To reflect the interrelationship of the production and consumption 
limits, the Agency provided that a producer needed both production 
and consumption allowances to produce these chemicals (since 
production counted against both production and consumption limits), 
while importers needed only consumption allowances to import 
(since imports counted only against consumption). 
   To illustrate, a company that intended to manufacture a controlled 
substance had to have sufficient production allowances for the 
group of controlled substances to which the particular substance 
belongs in order to cover its level of production. Furthermore, 
since production is also included in the calculation of consumption, 
that company must also have had at least the same number of 
consumption allowances in order to produce the same controlled 
substances. For example, prior to producing one kilogram of 
CFC-12, a company must have had both a one-kilogram production 
allowance for Group I substances and a one-kilogram consumption 
allowance for the same group of substances. In producing that 
one kilogram, the company expended both the production allowance 
and consumption allowance. 
   A company could import controlled substances with consumption 
allowances alone, since imports were included in the definition 
of consumption but not of production. Like the producer, however, 
the importer had to hold prior to importing sufficient consumption 
allowances specific to the group of controlled substances to 
which the substance being imported belongs. Once the import 
occurred, the consumption allowances needed to cover the import 
were expended. 
   Exporters of controlled substances were not required to obtain 
allowances in order to export. Through the export of a controlled 
substance, a company decreased the volume of controlled substance 
available for consumption in the United States. Consequently, 
if certain conditions were met, an exporter could obtain additional 
consumption allowances from EPA after the controlled substances 
had been exported to a Party to the Montreal Protocol (see Additional 
Allowances). To obtain additional allowances, the company had 
to verify to the EPA that the export had occurred. EPA then 
granted additional allowances equal to the calculated level 
of the export. 
   The following specific examples further illustrate the interrelationships 
between these allowances: 
   1. A producer had 20 kilograms of Group I (CFCs) production 
allowances and 15 kilograms of Group I consumption allowances. 
Since both production allowances and consumption allowances 
were needed to produce, a producer could make only 15 kilograms 
of Group I substances, expending the 15 of its 20 production 
allowances and all of its 15 consumption allowances in the process. 
However, if the producer then exported 5 kilograms of Group 
I substances to a Party nation, it could receive 5 additional 
Group I consumption allowances from EPA upon proof of export. 
With the additional 5 Group I consumption allowances, the company 
could produce 5 more kilograms of Group I substances, expending 
its remaining 5 Group I production allowances and the 5 additional 
consumption allowances. 
   2. An importer had Group I consumption allowances equal to 
20 kilograms. The importer imported 20 kilograms of Group I 
substances using the 20 kilograms of consumption allowances, 
and then repackaged 10 kilograms for re-export. Once these 10 
kilograms had been exported, the importer could report the export 
to EPA and request additional allowances. Upon proof of export 
the company would receive 10 additional Group I consumption 
allowances. 
   Under EPA's 1988 rule, once any allowance was used to produce 
or import a controlled substance, that allowance was "expended" 
and could not be used again. In addition, allowances were only 
valid for the control period for which they were issued. Consistent 
with the twelve-month control requirements contained in the 
Protocol, allowances could never be carried over to the next 
control period. 
   d. Additional allowances. EPA's final rule also provided 
for granting additional allowances under certain circumstances. 
Exporters could receive additional consumption allowances for 
controlled substances exported to any nation before January 
1, 1993 or to any other Protocol Party beginning January 1, 
1993. Producers could receive additional production allowances 
for exporting controlled substances to developing country Parties 
to the Protocol or upon the transfer of production rights from 
another Party to the Protocol. In accordance with the regulations, 
allowances could also be obtained through trading. 
   e. Reporting requirements. To monitor industry's compliance 
with the production and consumption limits, EPA also required 
that producers and importers maintain records of their activities 
and report their production and import levels every quarter. 
   Since the original rule was promulgated in 1988, minor revisions 
have been issued on February 9, 1989 (54 FR 6376), April 3, 
1989 (54 FR 13502), July 5, 1989 (54 FR 28062), July 12, 1989 
(54 FR 29337), February 13, 1990 (55 FR 5005), June 15, 1990 
(55 FR 24490) and June 22, 1990 (55 FR 25812). 

3. 1990 Revision of Montreal Protocol 

   As noted earlier, the Protocol's 1989 scientific assessment 
confirmed that stratospheric ozone was being depleted more quickly 
than originally believed. In response to the assessment, the 
Parties decided at their June 1990 meeting in London to completely 
phaseout by January 1, 2000, the CFCs and halons already subject 
to the Protocol's control requirements and carbon tetrachloride 
and the "other" fully halogenated CFCs not originally regulated 
by the Protocol. They also agreed to phaseout methyl chloroform 
by 2005. In addition, the Parties decided to shift from July-
through-June control periods to calendar-year control periods, 
beginning with the 1993 control period. They provided for an 
18-month transitional control period from July 1, 1991, to December 
31, 1992, during which Parties would be obligated to limit their 
production and consumption of the already regulated CFCs and 
halons to 150 percent of baseline levels. 
   The changes in reduction requirements applicable to the already 
regulated CFCs and halons were made as "adjustments" to the 
Protocol and so became binding on the Parties six months after 
the receipt of formal notification under the terms of the Protocol. 
The 1990 adjustments accordingly took effect on March 7, 1991. 
The addition of carbon tetrachloride, methyl chloroform and 
the other CFCs was adopted as an "amendment" to the Protocol, 
which will take effect 90 days after 20 Protocol Parties ratify 
the Amendments. Under the Protocol, amendments bind only the 
Parties that ratify them. The U.S. has ratified the amendments. 
As a result, a nation that is a Party for purposes of the originally 
regulated CFCs and halons would not be a Party for purposes 
of carbon tetrachloride, methyl chloroform and the other CFCs 
until it has ratified the Amendments. 
   To encourage all nations to ratify or at least comply with 
the Protocol and the London Amendments, the Parties also adopted 
additional trade sanctions against nations that fail to join 
or comply with all or part of the Protocol. Article 4 originally 
required that Parties ban imports of controlled substances from 
non-Parties. Amendments to Article 4 require that Parties also 
ban exports of controlled substances to non-Parties and defines 
non-Parties for purposes of Article 4 as including, with respect 
to a particular controlled substance, a nation that has not 
agreed to be bound by the control measures in effect for that 
substance. Under amended Article 4, a nation that is a Party 
only for the original controlled substances will not be able 
to import the newly regulated controlled substances from other 
Parties or export the newly regulated controlled substances 
to other Parties beginning January 1, 1993. 
   The issue of what Parties are operating under Article 5 of 
the Protocol was addressed by the Parties, as well. Article 
5 permits any developing country whose consumption of the original 
controlled substances is less than 0.3 kilograms per capita 
when it joins the Protocol to delay its compliance with the 
Protocol's control measures by ten years. The Parties originally 
delayed designating Article 5 nations on the basis that many 
countries had not submitted data showing that they were under 
the 0.3 kilogram cap. At their meeting in Nairobi in June, 1991, 
however, the Parties agreed on a list of Article 5 countries. 

4. The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 

   Shortly after the Protocol Parties' London meeting, the United 
States Congress passed the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. 
The restrictions on production and consumption of ozone depleting 
substances found in title VI of the Clean Air Act are similar 
to those in the London Amendments, although interim targets 
are more stringent and the phaseout of methyl chloroform occurs 
earlier. 
   The Amendments to the Act also require EPA to promulgate 
regulations to ensure the "lowest achievable levels" of emissions 
in all use sectors, to ban nonessential products, to approve 
the use of safe substitutes only, and to mandate warning labels. 
Today's notice promulgates limits on production and consumption 
and is one of several regulations that will implement the Amendments' 
title VI provisions. 

5. Temporary Final Rule 

   On March 6, 1991 (56 FR 9518), EPA published temporary regulations 
to implement the 1991 limits on the production and consumption 
of ozone depleting chemicals required by section 604 of the 
Act. The regulations took effect on January 1, 1991, and were 
to remain in effect only during 1991. Today's regulations pertain 
to all control periods beginning with the 1992 calendar year. 
   The temporary final rule revised EPA's regulations implementing 
the Montreal Protocol as needed to implement the 1991 production 
and consumption limits under section 604 in a manner consistent 
with the United States' obligations under the Protocol. 

II. Statutory Authority 

   Title VI of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990 provides 
for the phaseout of ozone depleting substances through provisions 
contained in several sections. Section 602 directs EPA to issue 
within 60 days after enactment of the 1990 Amendments two lists 
of ozone depleting chemicals. One list is to include the chemicals 
already regulated under the Protocol and EPA's regulations (i.e., 
the five CFCs and three halons), as well as the chemicals to 
be regulated under the revised Protocol (i.e., all other fully 
halogenated CFCs, carbon tetrachloride and methyl chloroform) 
and their isomers (except 1,1,2-trichloroethane, an isomer of 
methyl chloroform). The chemicals on that list are collectively 
called "class I" substances. The second list is to include all 
the HCFCs and their isomers; these chemicals are referred to 
as "class II" substances. For each of the chemicals listed, 
EPA must also assign an ozone depletion potential, a chlorine 
or bromine loading potential, an atmospheric lifetime and, within 
one year after enactment, a global warming potential (the relative 
ability of a controlled substance to contribute to global warming). 
EPA published the required initial listing notice, including 
ODPs, on January 22, 1991 (56 FR 2420). 
   Section 603 directs EPA to amend its regulations to implement 
new requirements regarding monitoring and reporting of class 
I and class II substances. Included in this section are requirements 
for industry reports on production, import, and export levels 
of class I and class II substances and periodic EPA reports 
to Congress on specified industry activities, atmospheric conditions, 
and the status of substitute technology. 
   Section 604(a) makes it unlawful for any person to produce 
any class I substance in an annual quantity greater than the 
specified percentages of the quantity of the substance produced 
by that person in the baseline year. (Section 601(2) defines 
baseline year as 1986 for the already regulated chemicals and 
1989 for the newly regulated chemicals.) The provision is self 
effectuating. The first control period in the reduction schedule 
began on January 1, 1991, and ran through the end of 1991. Section 
604(a) requires in the first control period a freeze on carbon 
tetrachloride and methyl chloroform at 1989 production levels 
and a 15 percent reduction for all remaining class I substances. 
   Section 604(c) calls for EPA to promulgate within ten months 
after enactment regulations to implement the production controls 
described above and to "insure" that United States consumption 
of the class I chemicals is reduced on the same schedule as 
production. Section 601(b) defines consumption as production 
plus imports minus exports to nations which are Parties to the 
Montreal Protocol. 
   Section 607 requires EPA to promulgate within ten months 
after enactment rules "providing for issuance of allowances" 
for production and consumption of class I and II substances 
and governing the transfer of such allowances. The transfer 
rules are to require that each trade result in less overall 
production or consumption than would have occurred absent the 
trade. 
   Section 604(e) authorizes EPA to permit, after notice and 
opportunity for comment, production in excess of the limits 
for export to, and use in, developing countries that are operating 
under Article 5 of the Protocol. Like the Protocol, section 
604(e) provides that such excess production must be solely for 
the purpose of supplying the basic domestic needs of such countries. 
   Section 616 requires EPA to promulgate, within two years 
after enactment, regulations authorizing trades of allowable 
production with other Parties to the Protocol. The regulations 
are to require, among other things, that trades do not result 
in more production than would have otherwise occurred. 
   Finally, section 614(b) addresses the relationship between 
the statute and the Protocol, stating that "in the case of conflict 
between any provision of this title and any provision of the 
Montreal Protocol, the more stringent provision shall govern." 
It also provides that the title "shall not be construed, interpreted, 
or applied to abrogate the responsibilities or obligations of 
the United States to implement fully the provisions of the Montreal 
Protocol." 

III. September 30, 1991 Proposal 

   In a Federal Register notice published on September 30, 1991, 
the Agency published proposed regulations for the implementation 
of the phaseout of ozone depleting substances as required by 
title VI of the Clean Air Act for 1992 and later. The notice 
included the proposed implementation of the requirements of 
section 604 of the Act as well as of the related provisions 
of sections 603, 607, and 616 in a manner consistent with the 
United States' continuing obligations under the Montreal Protocol. 
A detailed description of those provisions, the issues they 
raise, and EPA's proposed implementation of them may be found 
in the NPRM at 45 FR 49548. 
   Among the more significant issues addressed in the proposal 
was the reduction schedule for production and consumption of 
ozone depleting substances. The Act sets forth a phaseout schedule 
for the regulated chemicals. For 1992, production and consumption 
of CFCs and halons are limited to 80 percent of baseline levels, 
methyl chloroform is frozen at baseline levels and carbon tetrachloride 
is reduced to 90 percent of baseline levels. The limits on the 
production and consumption of ozone depleting chemicals are 
gradually reduced until 2000 (2002 for methyl chloroform), when 
the chemicals are to be phased out. 
   An additional cap on production and consumption to ensure 
compliance with the Protocol's somewhat different requirements 
was also proposed. As explained above, the temporary final rule 
shifted the control period to coincide with the calendar year, 
as required by the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act. EPA 
proposed to safeguard against non-compliance with the Protocol's 
150 percent cap for July 1991 through December 1992 by prohibiting 
any company from exceeding more than 150 percent of its baseline 
production and consumption of Group I (CFCs) substances from 
July 1, 1991 through December 31, 1992, except to the extent 
the company has received allowances authorizing additional production 
or consumption through intercompany trading, exports to Parties, 
and transfers of allowable production from other Parties. This 
prohibition is in addition to the prohibition against any person 
exceeding the allowances allocated to that person for the calendar-
year control period established pursuant to section 604(a) of 
the Clean Air Act. 
   In the NPRM, EPA also proposed revisions to the trading provisions 
of the stratospheric ozone protection regulations as required 
under title VI. Section 607 of the Act requires that any trade 
between chemicals or companies result in less overall production 
or consumption than would have occurred absent the trade. In 
the notice the Agency proposed to permit transfers of allowances 
provided the transferor's remaining allowances are reduced by 
the amount it transferred plus one percent of the amount transferred. 
A one-percent offset was proposed as an amount large enough 
to provide a net environmental benefit without discouraging 
trading necessary to meet market demands. 
   Exports to Article 5 Parties were also addressed by the proposed 
regulations. Section 604 of the Act permits production in excess 
of the amount otherwise allowed in order to supply the basic 
domestic needs of developing countries that are operating under 
Article 5 of the Protocol. In the NPRM, the Agency proposed 
to implement this provision by requiring that producers provide 
adequate assurances that the production supplied to a developing 
country will not be re-exported. 
   The Agency also proposed to permit increases or decreases 
in production through transfers of allowable production with 
other Protocol Parties under certain conditions. Section 616 
authorizes EPA to issue regulations providing for trades of 
allowable production with other Protocol Parties. If EPA approves 
a trade to another Party, it must revise the "production limits 
for the United States" such that the revised limits are the 
lesser of (a) the maximum production that the country is allowed 
under the Protocol minus the amount transferred, (b) the maximum 
production that is allowed under the country's applicable domestic 
law minus the amount transferred or (c) the average of the country's 
actual national production level for the three years prior to 
the transfer minus the production allowances transferred. In 
the case of a transfer to the United States, it was proposed 
that the principal diplomatic representative in the transferring 
country's embassy attest that the transferring country has revised 
its production limits in a similar manner. 
   In the NPRM, a change to the approach to granting additional 
allowances for transforming ozone depleting substances was proposed 
for carbon tetrachloride. Since over 81 percent of the carbon 
tetrachloride produced in this country is used to produce CFCs, 
the original system of approving additional allowances only 
after a chemical has been transformed is less workable for carbon 
tetrachloride. The proposed scheme provided allowances "up-front" 
prior to transformation, thus avoiding an unnecessarily burdensome 
stop-start production cycle. 

IV. Summary of Changes to Proposed Rule 


A. Definitions 


1. Importer 

   The Agency proposed the following definition of "importer:" 
"the importer of record listed on U.S. Customs Service Form 
7501 or 7512 for imported controlled substances." This definition 
is identical to that used in the past in 40 CFR part 82 (53 
FR 30566), with the addition of the words "or 7512." 
   Comments received on the definition of importer stated that 
the importer of record should not be the party required to possess 
consumption allowances. These commenters were concerned that 
shipping agents and customs brokers who routinely put up Customs 
bonds for other companies are often listed as the importer of 
record, and therefore would be held responsible for the import 
of controlled substances in which they have no economic interest. 
The commenters maintained that the existing regulations are 
in this way unfair and virtually impossible for brokers to comply 
with. As a result, they suggested that the definition of importer 
for purposes of compliance during the control period be the 
same as that used for purposes of granting baseline allowances, 
or "the first United States owner who is a supplier to or a 
member of the domestic industry that uses the controlled substances."
   The Agency previously considered using this definition for 
enforcement purposes and rejected it (see 53 FR 18803 and 53 
FR 30583). The Agency agrees that limiting the definition of 
importer to the importer of record could cause brokers to be 
held liable for imports of controlled substances although they 
were not granted baseline consumption allowances. However, as 
discussed in previous rulemakings (e.g., 53 FR 18803 and 53 
FR 30583), the Agency must choose a definition that will make 
compliance monitoring administratively feasible. In general, 
requiring the importer of record to be the party that holds 
the consumption allowances has proved to be effective for compliance-
monitoring purposes, as it allows the Agency to rely on data 
gathered from Customs entry summary forms to verify importer 
quarterly reports and to identify imports for which consumption 
allowances were not expended. EPA also does not believe that 
its definition of import puts Customs brokers or shipping agents 
in an impossible position. As several companies have demonstrated, 
one way to deal with the definition is for companies that have 
an economic interest in imported controlled substances and thus 
were granted baseline consumption allowances to ensure that 
they are designated as the importer of record on the entry summary 
form. Customs brokers and shipping agents can similarly require 
that the holder of allowances be designated the importer of 
record or that the needed allowances be transferred to them 
by the time the import occurs. In spite of the large volume 
of trade that brokers may handle, they remain responsible for 
the content of material that crosses the border into the United 
States under their bond. Clearly, many regulations ban the import 
of certain products or materials and brokers must be sure that 
the material they are importing is not prohibited. In the same 
way, they are responsible for ensuring that controlled substances 
under this subpart are not imported without the proper authorization. 
   One of the commenters also noted that the definition of importer 
is inconsistent with the definition of that term in a recent 
regulation promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). 
The Agency, however, need not define importer in a manner consistent 
with IRS regulations, if, as is the case here, a different definition 
is more suitable to EPA's regulatory purposes. 
   Upon examining the definition of importer and its relation 
to Customs practices, the Agency determined that several different 
forms may be used when importing material into the United States. 
For example, Customs Form 3461 may be used for low value shipments 
in place of Form 7501. In order to guarantee that any person 
bringing controlled substances into the United States is subject 
to the import restrictions, which is and has been the objective 
of these restrictions, the Agency has determined that the definition 
of importer should read "the importer of record listed on U.S. 
Customs Service forms for imported controlled substances." 

2. Production 

   a. Exemption for immediately-destroyed by-products that are 
controlled substances. The Agency proposed that carbon tetrachloride 
that is produced as a coincidental, unavoidable by-product (CUBP) 
of a manufacturing process and then immediately contained and 
destroyed be exempted from regulation under this subpart. This 
proposal was based on language in the Joint Explanatory Statement 
of the Committee of Conference that accompanied the Clean Air 
Act Amendments. The Agency requested comment on several issues 
relating to the definition of a (CUBP), immediate containment 
and destruction, and maximum available control technologies. 
   One commenter believed that this exemption should take the 
form of an alteration in the definition of production under 
the regulations. This company maintained that by restructuring 
the regulations in this manner, the inadvertent manufacture 
of a controlled substance immediately contained and destroyed 
is exempt from the definition of production rather than from 
the control of production. 
   The Agency, however, does not believe that it is appropriate 
to exempt CUBP production of Groups IV and V controlled substances 
from the definition of production. The Agency believes that 
it is more appropriate to include this exemption in 82.4, Prohibitions, 
than under 82.3, Definitions, because the exemption is not 
permanent and categorical, but rather is subject to case-by-
case annual review by the Agency. CUBP production of controlled 
substances in Groups IV and V is therefore exempted from the 
production restrictions in today's regulations. This exemption 
is discussed in more detail below as part of the discussion 
of exemptions to the phaseout. 
   Another commenter argued that carbon tetrachloride that is 
used for explosion prevention in the manufacture of chlorine 
and subsequently destroyed should be exempted from the definition 
of production because it is essential for human safety. 
   The Agency does not believe that this use of carbon tetrachloride 
falls within the parameters of the CUBP exemption described 
in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference 
on the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments, because it does not involve 
the inadvertent manufacture of a controlled substance. Although 
the Protocol allows for controlled substances to be excluded 
from production if they are destroyed using destruction methods 
approved by the Parties, the Clean Air Act does not contain 
such an exclusion and the Joint Explanatory Statement specifically 
states that the Protocol's exclusion does not apply under domestic 
law except where the destroyed material is CUBP. 
   b. Used and entirely consumed (Except for Trace Quantities). 
The definition of production in the statute and in the proposed 
regulations excludes from production "the manufacture of a substance 
that is used and entirely consumed (except for trace quantities) 
in the manufacture of other chemicals." In the NPRM, the Agency 
suggested that although the parenthetical phrase "except for 
trace quantities" does not appear in the Montreal Protocol definition, 
it is implicit because it is a law of chemistry that no chemical 
can ever be entirely consumed in the manufacture of another 
chemical. Thus, EPA found that the addition of the phrase in 
the regulations is warranted and not incongruous with the Protocol. 
   The only comment the Agency received on this point agreed 
that the exception for trace amounts is implicit in the Montreal 
Protocol's exclusion from "production" for amounts "entirely 
used as a feedstock in the manufacture of other chemicals." 

3. Transformation-Distinction Between Transformation and Destruction 

   In the NPRM, the Agency discussed the difference between 
transformation and destruction. Essentially, the proposed definition 
of transformation was the use and entire consumption of a chemical 
in a process that produces another commercially useful chemical. 
The proposed definition of destruction was any process that 
results in the "expiration" of the chemical without any commercially 
useful end product being produced. 
   One company commented that defining "transformation" as a 
process that produces a commercial product that is sold, or 
an intermediate substance that is used in further manufacture 
limits transformation to only those processes where a commercial 
product is the direct product of the transformation reaction. 
This company stated that such a limitation would unnecessarily 
restrict commercial manufacturing use of controlled substances 
since, in many commercial processes, a controlled substance 
is used and entirely consumed but is not transformed into a 
commercial product (e.g., use of controlled substances as reaction 
inhibitors, solvents, or inert direct coolants). The same company 
argued that the proposed definition would force some processes 
where controlled substance use is essential to shut down. It 
contended that even where substitute chemicals are available, 
large sums of money would be spent on process retrofits without 
environmental benefit. 
   The commenter gave as an example of a process which it believed 
would not meet the proposed definition of transformation a process 
in which (1) The reaction process results in a commercial product 
or intermediate substance that could not otherwise be produced 
without the presence of the ozone depleting chemical; (2) the 
ozone depleting chemical is entirely consumed in the production 
process via a combustion reaction that transforms the controlled 
substance to a non-controlled substance; (3) the combustion 
device is a necessary and integral part of the commercial process 
where the ozone depleting chemical is used; (4) there is no 
storage of the ozone depleting substance between the use in 
the production of the commercial product and the controlled 
substance combustion because they are both parts of the same 
production process; (5) these operations cannot be characterized 
as a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) waste destruction 
operation; and (6) the ozone depleting chemical is generally 
burned as part of a process to vent steam and is not a solid 
waste as defined by RCRA. The commenter noted that although 
the process described above did not result in the transformation 
of the ozone depleting substance into a commercial product, 
it does meet the strict requirement that the substance be used 
and entirely consumed. Furthermore, the commenter stated, there 
is no practical difference between processes where the controlled 
substance is transformed directly to a commercial product and 
those where the ozone depleting chemical is used to produce 
a commercial product and is then transformed to a noncommercial 
chemical. 
   The Agency's definition of transformation would not necessarily 
exclude the process described above. EPA is aware of several 
transformation situations in which the manufacturing process 
requires that the controlled substance be broken down or chemically 
changed, without the ozone depleting substance actually forming 
part of the intended commercial product. One example is the 
use of carbon tetrachloride as a chlorine source for rejuvenating 
the catalyst in certain refinery or isomerization processes. 
In these cases, although the gasoline or iso-butane being produced 
does not contain the reaction products of carbon tetrachloride, 
the carbon tetrachloride was transformed to produce chlorine 
atoms which were commercially useful when they rejuvenated the 
catalyst. Thus, EPA's proposed definition of transformation 
does not require that the reaction products become part of a 
saleable product. 
   In order for a process in which the reaction products do 
not become part of a saleable product to satisfy the definition 
of transformation, the following must be true. It must be essential 
for the manufacturing process that the controlled substance 
be broken down, and it must be physically impossible to recover 
the ozone depleting chemical after its use and still have it 
serve its purpose in the process. If it is not essential for 
the manufacturing process that the controlled substance be broken 
down, the "expiration" of the controlled substance is incidental 
and would most likely be as the result of destruction. The controlled 
substance is clearly not being incorporated into a commercially 
useful chemical. If it is physically possible to recover the 
ozone depleting chemical after it has served its purpose in 
the process, then it is not being transformed in the process 
and is only expiring in a separate, destruction step. If it 
is essential that the material be broken down, and as a result 
it is not recoverable, the process probably qualifies as transformation, 
as long as the actual reaction that is taking place clearly 
results in a commercially useful intermediary as one step in 
the manufacturing process. If it is not essential for the manufacturing 
process that the controlled substance be broken down, i.e., 
it is recoverable after performing its function in the process, 
it is probably not being transformed. This would be true if 
the material served as a solvent in the process, even if it 
were fed directly into an incinerator after completing its function. 
   The Agency cannot allow the definition of transformation 
to include manufacturing processes where controlled substances 
are used and then moved directly into an incinerator after use. 
Clearly, the purpose of the incinerator is simply to destroy 
the material. This is true even if the incinerator is attached 
to a vent in order to capture and destroy volatile emissions. 
If the Agency were to include these processes in the definition 
of transformation, a company using an ozone-depletor as a solvent 
could simply send the waste solvent directly to an incinerator 
and claim it as transformation. The Protocol, however, distinguishes 
between transformation of controlled substances in the production 
of another commercial chemical and destruction. As explained 
above, the Agency believes the key questions for determining 
whether a substance has been transformed is whether the substance 
has undergone a change in chemical composition in order to become 
a commercial product or intermediary as a necessary step in 
a production process. The Agency is providing exemptions in 
this rulemaking for production of controlled substances that 
are by-products of manufacturing processes, and is participating 
in a working group established by the Parties that is exploring 
issues related specifically to destruction. 
   One company supported the definition adopted by the Agency 
for transformation. Two other commenters, however, maintained 
that the definition of "transform" refers to manufacture of 
other chemicals "for commercial purposes", and that the regulations 
should clarify that commercial purposes means for sale by producers 
or for use by producers that would otherwise have to purchase 
it. 
   As a general rule, the phrase "commercial purposes" would 
have the meaning the commenters suggest. However, in the catalyst-
rejuvenation case discussed above, the chlorine atoms that activate 
the catalyst could not necessarily be sold or purchased in that 
form, and so although the product of the transformation is commercially 
useful, it could not otherwise have been sold or purchased. 
Thus EPA has decided not to restrict "commercial purposes" (as 
suggested by the commenters) to sale or use in place of purchased 
material. 
   One commenter asserted that the definition of transformation 
should be clarified because there are situations where both 
transformation and destruction occur in the same process (i.e., 
transformation where the controlled substance "expires" in the 
manufacture of another commercial chemical, and destruction 
where the "expiration" of the controlled substance results in 
the creation of another chemical which is a waste product). 
They maintained that this situation meets the exclusion from 
the definition of "production" since the controlled substance 
is essential to the reaction (in very small amounts relative 
to the commercial chemical), but is not itself incorporated 
into the molecules of the commercial chemical. In assisting 
the reaction, the controlled substance is broken into simpler 
compounds that are waste products. According to this company, 
the chemical is thus used and entirely consumed (except for 
trace quantities) in the manufacture of other chemicals, and 
meets the definition of transformation even if the actual atoms 
of the controlled substance end up as waste products after assisting 
the reaction. This commenter suggested that EPA either clarify 
the definition of transformation to include this type of process 
or expand the definition of transformation itself. 
   The Agency believes that the process described by this commenter 
would qualify as transformation. The key point in the above 
description is that "in assisting the reaction, the controlled 
substance is broken into simpler compounds." If it is necessary 
for the ozone depleting chemical to be broken down in order 
to serve its purpose in the reactor, it is being transformed. 
This again differs from the situation where the ozone depleting 
substance serves its purpose, remains intact, and only as a 
separate step is destroyed. 
   One commenter was generally in agreement with EPA's proposed 
distinction between transformation and destruction, and believed 
that specific processes including thermal oxidizers and halogen 
acid furnaces should be identified as transformation. 
   In applying the "commercial purposes" test to these processes, 
the Agency concludes that halogen acid furnaces would qualify 
as transformation because the resulting halogen acid is used 
or sold and not disposed of as a waste. Thermal oxidizers, however, 
would not qualify because the product of the controlled substance 
being broken down is not another chemical, but simply energy. 
In no way is the controlled substance being chemically changed 
to become a commercially useful chemical; the substance is destroyed 
in order to produce heat. 
   In summary, a controlled substance is transformed if it is 
used and entirely consumed (except for trace quantities) in 
the manufacture of other chemicals. The "other chemicals" manufactured 
must be commercially useful. This includes uses in manufacturing 
processes and is not limited to commercial sale. Processes where 
the atoms that make up the controlled substance are rearranged 
to form only a waste product are destruction processes, not 
transformation. 

B. Baseline Allowances 


1. Class II Baseline 

   The Agency proposed to reserve the baselines for class II 
chemicals, because under 605 the phaseout of those chemicals 
does not begin until 2015, and it will take some time for the 
market to determine what representative production levels for 
these substances would be. This proposal was supported by commenters. 

2. Selection of Baseline Year and Baseline Allowances for Chemicals 
Added Later 

   In the NPRM, the Agency requested suggestions regarding the 
appropriate method for determining the baseline year and allowances 
for new chemicals to be added to the class I list of ozone depleting 
substances. The allocation of such allowances is subject to 
the provisions of sections 604 and 607 of the Clean Air Act. 
   One company responded with a suggestion on how to calculate 
the baseline allowances for CHF2Br (Halon 1201, or bromodifluoromethane), 
a chemical that EPA intends to add to the list of ozone depleting 
substances and a potential substitute for Halons 1211 and 1301. 
The suggested approach for this particular substance will be 
discussed in the proposal to list Halon 1201 as a class I chemical 
and allocate baseline production and consumption levels for 
this chemical. 
   Since no other comments were received on the method for determining 
the baseline year and allowances, the Agency will continue to 
evaluate each substance on a case-by-case basis in order to 
determine a representative baseline year. 

3. Method of Calculation of Baseline Allowances 

   EPA proposed baseline allowances for the Class I substances 
based on each company's production and consumption of each of 
the substances in the baseline year. Information on baseline-
year activities was gathered under two information requests. 
The first request, dated December 14, 1987 (52 FR 47486), collected 
information on the amount of Group I and II controlled substances 
that firms had produced, imported or exported in 1986. More 
recently, the same information was requested for Groups III 
through V (other CFCs, carbon tetrachloride, and methyl chloroform) 
on November 26, 1990 (55 FR 49116). The Agency calculated a 
company's baseline production of a controlled substance by subtracting 
from the amount manufactured the amount of that company's product 
that was transformed or used as a feedstock in the baseline 
year. Consumption was calculated in a similar fashion, adding 
imports to the calculated production and subtracting baseline-
year exports attributed to the company. A correction factor 
was applied to all baseline calculations to account for exported 
and transformed material that could not be attributed to a particular 
producer or importer. 
   Two companies commented that after the regulations are adopted, 
companies should be given an opportunity to challenge the baseline 
allowances and verify correct computation. In addition, these 
corporations believed that problems were created by the 1991 
temporary final regulations because EPA collected information 
before defining key terms. These companies maintained that EPA 
should consider re-examining data in light of new definitions 
and reviewing data in cases in which definitions have changed. 
Another commenter also maintained that EPA may need to examine 
the process used to set baseline allowances for carbon tetrachloride, 
especially if it changes the method of applying production and 
consumption limits for that chemical. 
   The Agency has already given an opportunity for companies 
to challenge the baseline allowances by including them in the 
NPRM, and a lengthy description of the calculation method was 
provided to all involved. Although issues such as destruction 
versus transformation have required clarification in this rulemaking, 
the Agency has recalculated the allowances to account for the 
changes in the definitions. The Agency received the additional 
information that was needed to make the changes since the publication 
of the proposal. The only issue concerning which the Agency 
may need additional information is that of controlled substances 
produced as by-products. As discussed below, the Agency is requesting 
the necessary information.
   Comments from two companies mentioned that baseline allowances 
should reflect the percentage of a company's baseline-year production 
that will not be exported or transformed. These companies asserted 
that with the proposed EPA system, inventories can make baseline 
numbers artificially low or high. One company offered an alternative 
approach that would rely on emissive uses to set baseline allowances 
for heavily transformed substances. 
   EPA recognizes that the effect of subtracting 1989 exports 
and transformations from 1989 production and imports is not 
the same as calculating the actual amount of 1989 production 
and imports that were not and will not be exported or transformed. 
The Agency submits that it would be impossible to trace each 
molecule of 1989 controlled substances to ascertain its ultimate 
use or destination when there had been no requirement at that 
time to track the fate of the compound. In addition, it is possible 
that some amounts of controlled substances produced in 1989 
will yet be transformed or exported at some future date. Again, 
it is not possible for EPA to determine the fate of all 1989 
production. As a result, 1989 transformation and exports were 
used as a reasonable approximation. 
   The emissive uses approach would necessitate a supplementary 
survey of users that would cause a significant delay in the 
implementation of the provisions of the Act. Furthermore, the 
suggested method would depart from the Clean Air Act requirements 
by changing its most basic definitions, whereas the current 
method's assumptions are consistent with those definitions while 
making certain mathematical approximations in order to render 
its requirements achievable. EPA notes, moreover, that the Agency 
has calculated allowances in this manner beginning with the 
original phaseout regulations in 1988, and has reported U.S. 
baseline-year levels to the Protocol Secretariat using these 
calculations. 
   One company maintained that because of business cycles and 
economic factors, the same amount of carbon tetrachloride is 
not produced and used every year. As a result, the assumption 
that current-year transformations equal the amount of current-
year production eventually transformed does not hold true. This 
company presented an example of two companies that produced 
the same amount of carbon tetrachloride in the baseline year, 
with the same amount eventually exported and transformed but 
a different amount sold to emissive uses. The example showed 
that inventories distort the numbers to create identical baselines 
for the two companies. 
   Another example mentioned by the same company shows how a 
producer that did not sell to emissive users in 1989 could receive 
baseline allowances, unlike another producer that did sell to 
emissive users. This situation could occur if the first company's 
sales for non-emissive uses were not transformed until 1990, 
and the second company had a high level of inventory at the 
end of 1988 that was sold or exported in 1989. The commenter 
stated that the results, as shown by these examples, are unfair 
and inconsistent with the goal of the Clean Air Act to eliminate 
emissive uses of ozone depleting substances.
   These examples show that inventory can indeed affect the 
calculation of the baseline. However, as discussed above, it 
would be administratively burdensome and in many cases impossible 
to actually trace the fate of 1989 production. The new method 
of tracking carbon tetrachloride transformation as discussed 
below should remove any compliance difficulties that producers 
of this controlled substance for feedstock experienced during 
calendar year 1991 arising from idiosyncrasies of the carbon 
tetrachloride market in 1989. 
   One company commented that the Clean Air Act does not require 
EPA to use the proposed baseline calculation method, and that 
this method is inconsistent with the Act's definition of production. 
The company pointed out that the definition excludes only the 
amount transformed from the amount produced, as opposed to excluding 
the transformation of controlled substances that may have been 
produced in the previous year. 
   As noted earlier, the Agency has concluded that only the 
amount of each chemical transformed in the baseline year can 
be accurately ascertained and that calculating baseline allowances 
on this basis is consistent with the definition of production. 
As stated above, it would not be possible to trace later transformation 
of 1989-produced controlled substances. A simplifying assumption 
was necessarily made that the amount of previous-year production 
transformed in 1989 would be similar to the amount of 1989 production 
transformed in 1990. Although the Agency recognizes that business 
may fluctuate from year to year, the proposed approach is readily 
calculated and consistent with the relevant definitions. 
   One company remarked that EPA has changed allowance allocations 
from 1991 without stating so in the preamble, or explaining 
why the change was made. This company believed that the regulations 
should clarify that the allocations do not apply to 1991. 
   In the preamble to the NPRM, EPA discussed the calculations 
that caused a change in the baseline allowances between March 
6, 1991 and this rulemaking. Some changes were made because 
of new information on companies' activities in the baseline 
year. Another change resulted from the distribution of two companies' 
negative Group IV consumption allowances over the rest of the 
companies receiving consumption allowances for carbon tetrachloride. 
These companies' baseline-year consumption was negative because 
the amount of carbon tetrachloride produced by them that was 
exported and transformed during 1989 was greater than the amount 
of carbon tetrachloride that they produced and imported during 
1989. The resulting changes of the baseline allowances are not 
effective for 1991, as stated in the section of today's rule 
on Effective Date. 
   Another commenter maintained that re-allocation of the negative 
consumption is not needed in order to satisfy the Clean Air 
Act, which the commenter asserted sets limits on a per-person 
basis depending on the person's baseline-year production and 
consumption. Therefore, the company asserted that the allocation 
of the negative amounts should be deferred until Montreal Protocol 
provisions for carbon tetrachloride go into effect in 1995. 
   In response, the Agency notes that section 604(c) requires 
EPA "to promulgate regulations to insure that the consumption 
of class I substances in the United States is phased out" on 
the same schedule as is applicable to the production of class 
I substances (emphasis added). While section 604(a) defines 
production limits in terms of a percentage of a company's baseline-
year production, section 604(c) requires EPA to define consumption 
limits that will insure that United States' consumption as a 
whole is subject to the same percentage reduction. Section 607 
provides that allowances be granted in a manner consistent with 
the applicable reductions prescribed by section 604. Thus, consumption 
allowances must be allocated in such a way that the total number 
of allowances granted equals total allowable U.S. consumption. 
For the aggregate number of consumption allowances to reflect 
U.S. consumption in the baseline year, the "negative" consumption 
accrued by some companies in the baseline year must be taken 
into account in this rulemaking. 
   Another comment explained one situation where a customer 
sought allowances for transformations, and EPA ruled the customer's 
process to be destruction. If this company were treated as a 
transformer in computing the 1989 baseline allowances, other 
companies' allocations would be too low. This commenter maintained 
that there is no check on EPA since the information upon which 
the allowances are based is not made available to the public. 
   The Agency is familiar with the case to which the commenter 
refers, and responds that in any case for which a company's 
designation may have changed, the baseline allowances have been 
adjusted accordingly. Many of the companies submitting baseline 
information filed claims of confidentiality, and, as such, the 
Agency cannot at this time make the information available to 
the public. EPA believes, however, that producers of controlled 
substances that wish to check the information submitted by their 
customers could do so by contacting those companies. EPA has 
provided companies with detailed spreadsheets describing exactly 
how their allowance allocations were affected by second-party 
reports. 
   One suggestion was made that EPA should resurvey customers 
after it issues final regulations in order to rectify potential 
problems. This company believed that a resurvey would not be 
a major impediment because it needs to be done in any event 
to make sure the feedstock numbers are correct. 
   EPA has examined the information collected on transformation 
and believes that the data set is consistent with the definitions 
set forth in this rulemaking. In addition, the comment period 
allowed companies the opportunity to submit additional data 
for EPA to revise their baseline numbers if they found them 
to be inaccurate in the proposed rule. Since the additional 
information resulting from refined definitions was submitted 
after the proposed rule was published, baseline numbers have 
changed slightly from those published in the proposed rule. 
The Agency does not anticipate that these changes will cause 
affected firms any difficulty in complying with today's regulations. 

C. Implementation of Exemptions to the Phaseout 


1. Exemption for Immediately-Destroyed By-Products That Are 
Controlled Substances 

   a. The exemption. EPA proposed that carbon tetrachloride 
that is a coincidental, unavoidable by-product (CUBP) of a manufacturing 
process that is immediately contained and destroyed by the producer 
using maximum available control technology be exempted from 
the limits on production of controlled substances. This exemption 
was based on statements made in the Joint Explanatory Statement 
of the Committee of Conference of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments, 
indicating that EPA should grant such exemptions on a case-by-
case basis. The proposal stated that requests for such an exemption 
would be considered on a case-by-case basis, and if the exemption 
were not granted, the Agency would grant the requesting company 
baseline allowances (subject to the phaseout) based on the company's 
production of the chemical as a by-product in 1989. 
   One company supported EPA's observation in the NPRM that 
it would be unworkable to control companies that coincidentally 
produce and then destroy carbon tetrachloride through the proposed 
allowance system. Another company commented that EPA should 
exempt destroyed coincidentally-produced carbon tetrachloride 
and not provide allowances to its producers since the allowance 
system would not work in the long term because all of this production 
would then have to be phased out. This company contended that 
providing allowances could lead to the shutdown of facilities 
producing non-controlled substances. 
   In response to this comment, the Agency clarifies that it 
would only allot baseline allowances to by-product producers 
in situations where it could not grant an exemption. This would 
occur in cases where the chemical was produced intentionally, 
where as a by-product it was not destroyed with an appropriate 
destruction technique, or if the Protocol restrictions on carbon 
tetrachloride took effect before approved destruction techniques 
were defined. EPA notes that in such cases, having baseline 
allowances that are being phased down would stimulate the producer 
to arrange for the transformation of the chemical, or seek out 
an approved method of destroying the chemical, thus preventing 
damage to the ozone layer caused by its release. To ensure that 
all destruction technologies are considered by the Parties for 
approval, the Agency is actively participating in a UNEP working 
group on destruction technologies. 
   If companies eligible for this exemption have previously 
reported carbon tetrachloride by-product generation as production 
for the determination of their baseline, they should include 
that information with their request for the exemption. If the 
exemption is granted, their baseline will be reduced accordingly.
   Another company suggested an amendment to the recordkeeping 
requirements in 82.13(l) as follows: (1) If the Administrator's 
designated representative finds, based on the submitted information, 
that the carbon tetrachloride for which the exemption from the 
definition of "produced" is sought is an unavoidable, coincidental 
by-product of the production of another chemical and that MACT 
will be used to destroy it, he or she will exempt this manufacture 
from the definition of "produced." 
   The Agency does not agree that the exemption should take 
the form of an exclusion from the definition of production, 
because such a categorical exclusion from production would be 
inconsistent with the Joint Explanatory Statement of the Committee 
of Conference which is the basis for providing the exemption. 
The Agency believes that in light of the Joint Explanatory Statement 
it is more appropriate to exempt companies from the production 
limits on a case-by-case basis. 
   b. First come, first served policy and interplay with the 
Montreal Protocol. The proposal included the provision that 
exemptions for carbon tetrachloride that is CUBP be granted 
only up to the level of the U.S. production limit for carbon 
tetrachloride under the Montreal Protocol. The definition of 
production under the Montreal Protocol includes an exemption 
for material that has been destroyed by technologies approved 
by the Parties, but as of this writing no technologies have 
been so approved. As a result, there is a cap on the total amount 
of exemptions that could be given, set by the difference between 
the Protocol limits and total U.S. production and consumption. 
EPA proposed that the exemptions be granted on a first come, 
first served basis. 
   A number of companies pointed out that control of carbon 
tetrachloride under the Montreal Protocol does not begin until 
1995, and thus there is no Protocol cap on the amount of exemptions 
that can be granted until 1995. The Agency agrees and will grant 
unlimited exemptions until 1995. In 1995, if destruction techniques 
are not yet approved by the Parties, EPA will be unable to grant 
any further exemptions. 
   Another commenter stated that EPA should allow for the exclusion 
subsequent to 1995 since the Montreal Protocol includes an exclusion 
for destroyed controlled substances and the Clean Air Act conference 
report allows for such exclusion. Moreover, this company maintained 
that exclusion is appropriate because destroyed ozone depleting 
substances do not damage the ozone layer. 
   EPA cannot grant exemptions from Protocol limits, and thus 
from Clean Air Act limits, that are not sanctioned by the Montreal 
Protocol. The Clean Air Act Amendments specifically state that 
in situations where the Act and the Protocol are in conflict, 
the more stringent of the two should govern. Although the Montreal 
Protocol does allow for exemptions for destroyed controlled 
substances, it only allows them to the extent that the destruction 
technology has been approved by the Parties. To date, no technologies 
have been approved. Again, the Agency is working to assist the 
Parties in determining acceptable destruction technologies. 
The Agency notes that the exclusion for destroyed CUBPs discussed 
in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference 
is more limited than the potential exclusion for destruction 
allowed under the Protocol. Therefore, even for control period 
prior to 1995, the Agency is permitting only a narrow exemption 
for destroyed CUBPs. 
   One company believed that EPA should re-open the matter for 
public comment well in advance of 1995 because exclusions will 
not be permitted starting in 1995, possibly forcing expensive 
alterations of production processes and costs not factored into 
the Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) before that date. Another 
commenter maintained that if an exemption for destruction is 
not allowed, companies that coincidentally produce and then 
destroy carbon tetrachloride would be forced eventually to alter 
their production processes at great cost and without measurable 
benefit to the environment. 
   EPA agrees that this could be an undesirable outcome if the 
Parties do agree on approved destruction technologies before 
1995. The Agency anticipates that these technologies will be 
defined by that date. 
   One commenter stated that Congress and EPA did not mean to 
restructure the chemical industry (i.e., preclude the manufacture 
of non-controlled substances that create carbon tetrachloride 
as a coincidental by-product) when they approved the phaseout. 
The Agency recognizes the importance of the exclusion provision 
and intends to grant exemptions for inadvertent production to 
the greatest extent allowed by the statute and the international 
treaty. 
   The Agency is educating the Parties on this subject and will 
explore whether the Montreal Protocol should be amended to deal 
with this issue. 
   c. Definition of maximum available control technology. The 
Agency requested comment in the NPRM on how to define "maximum 
available control technology" (MACT), as used in the Clean Air 
Act Conference Report to describe the appropriate destruction 
technique for the purposes of granting a CUBP exemption. EPA 
suggested that for carbon tetrachloride, current RCRA requirements 
for the incineration of carbon tetrachloride as a hazardous 
waste would be an appropriate definition of MACT. Regulations 
under RCRA require in most cases that carbon tetrachloride be 
treated as a hazardous waste. The typical treatment method would 
be combustion in an incinerator, boiler or industrial furnace 
that has a 99.99 percent destruction or removal efficiency rating 
(40 CFR 264.343(a), 40 CFR 266.104). 
   One commenter stated that defining MACT on the basis of RCRA 
requirements is appropriate, but that EPA should consider expanding 
the definition to allow the use of a vent incinerator with 98 
percent efficiency for several years, because it is the best 
technology reasonably available in certain process operations. 
   Although the use of a vent incinerator with 98 percent destruction 
efficiency may be allowable under other EPA regulations when 
carbon tetrachloride is not classified as a hazardous waste, 
the Agency believes that it is not sufficient for obtaining 
a CUBP exemption under the stratospheric ozone protection program. 
Congress in its Joint Explanatory Statement specified that maximum 
available control technology be used to destroy CUBP, and RCRA-
permitted combustion devices with 99.99 percent efficiency are 
available. Requiring the maximum, as opposed to the reasonably, 
available control technologies also fits with the goal of the 
EPA stratospheric ozone protection regulations and title VI, 
which is to minimize emissions of ozone depleting substances 
that lead to atmospheric harm. 
   One company asserted that the MACT definition should be made 
to include any destruction technologies approved by the Parties 
of the Montreal Protocol. Another company stated that the definition 
of MACT should be consistent with the standards that will be 
established pursuant to section 112 of the Act, but that the 
definition should focus on specific compounds rather than on 
categories of sources. This commenter also stated that although 
RCRA standards for incineration of carbon tetrachloride would 
probably prevail, the Agency should allow for the consideration 
of other techniques that are equally or more efficient and cost 
effective. 
   The Agency agrees that destruction techniques that are as 
efficient as the RCRA combustion requirements for carbon tetrachloride 
should also qualify for the exemption. To the extent that any 
emissions standards under section 112 of the Clean Air Act require 
the use of technologies that have a destruction efficiency equal 
to or greater than 99.99 percent, EPA will consider them to 
be sufficient for the granting of the exemption for carbon tetrachloride 
produced as a by-product. When the Parties to the Protocol complete 
their analysis of destruction techniques, EPA will evaluate 
these to determine if they reflect MACT. As noted previously, 
the Clean Air Act exemption for destroyed controlled substances 
is narrower than the Protocol's potential exemption, and thus 
it does not necessarily follow that destruction techniques approved 
by the Parties will meet the MACT criterion for the destruction 
exemption under the Act. 
   Another company agrees that incineration with an efficiency 
of 99.99 percent should qualify as MACT for the destruction 
of carbon tetrachloride, but that a more inclusive definition 
including alternative technologies should be considered. This 
commenter stated that EPA should establish procedures to allow 
for the demonstration of treatment and destruction techniques 
with removal efficiencies that are equivalent to an incinerator 
permitted under RCRA. 
   EPA will consider each exemption request on a case-by-case 
basis, allowing for the possibility of other efficient destruction 
procedures with 99.99 percent efficiency in addition to combustion. 
For alternative destruction technologies, however, the requester 
must provide adequate documentation for the Agency to be able 
to make a determination that the destruction efficiency of the 
technique is at least 99.99 percent. 
   d. Criteria for determining if controlled substances are 
unavoidable, coincidental by-products. Two commenters suggested 
definitions of a coincidental, unavoidable by-product (CUBP), 
stating that a product is a CUBP if it is unintentionally manufactured 
in the course of manufacturing another product. One example 
provided was that carbon tetrachloride would be a CUBP of a 
production process if the amount of carbon tetrachloride produced 
could not be varied independently of the intended product (i.e., 
the quantity of a CUBP manufactured varies proportionately with 
the production of the intended product, and ceases when the 
intended product's production is stopped). Similarly, these 
companies asserted that if carbon tetrachloride is not manufactured 
for commercial purposes (i.e., sale or use in place of carbon 
tetrachloride that otherwise would be purchased), then it is 
a CUBP. 
   The Agency believes that requiring both the commercial test 
and the dependent-variable test is appropriate for determining 
if a substance is a coincidental, unavoidable by-product. 
   One company observed that identifying individual chemical 
processes that result in the CUBP of carbon tetrachloride would 
not be practical. Another company stated that a number of chlorination 
processes could result in the coincidental generation of small 
amounts of carbon tetrachloride that, under the proposed regulatory 
scheme, would be prohibited. As an example, this company noted 
that the chlorination of a municipality's drinking water supply 
could result in the formation of many organic chemicals such 
as carbon tetrachloride or other controlled substances. 
   The Agency does not have sufficient information to identify 
at this time all the chemical processes that result in the production 
of controlled substances as by-products. To the extent they 
are numerous, the Agency is concerned about their contribution 
to ozone depletion and believes that until more is known, this 
type of production should be subject to phaseout requirements 
unless the CUBP substances are destroyed by appropriate destruction 
techniques, in which case an exemption could be granted. In 
any case, companies that produced controlled substances as by-
products and did not destroy them with MACT in 1989 should have 
reported their production in response to the section 114 information 
request in the November 26, 1990 Federal Register. Those companies 
that did not must supply EPA with this information within 45 
days of the publication of this notice. Baseline production 
and consumption allowances will then be calculated for them 
by EPA. As producers of controlled substances, companies in 
this situation are subject to the phaseout provisions until 
such time as they begin providing for the destruction or transformation 
of their carbon tetrachloride production in accordance with 
the regulations promulgated today. 
   The Agency recognizes that very small quantities of carbon 
tetrachloride may be formed in water treatment plants if a municipality 
has chlorinated its water, but it does not believe that carbon 
tetrachloride so formed is covered by the definition of production. 
Chlorination does not involve "production" of a controlled substance 
even as a coincidental unavoidable by-product of a manufacturing 
process, since chlorination is not typically considered manufacturing. 
A specific exemption from the regulations is thus not necessary 
for the chlorination of water. 
   One commenter acknowledged that EPA correctly recognized 
that carbon tetrachloride can be a CUBP in the production of 
methylene chloride and methyl chloroform. In addition, this 
company wrote that carbon tetrachloride can be a CUBP in the 
high temperature, catalytic trimerization of cyanogen chloride 
to cyanuric chloride, which is a feedstock for numerous valuable 
chemicals. 
   Although the Agency has not developed an exhaustive list 
of chemical processes that create controlled substances as by-
products, all of the above-mentioned processes would qualify 
for the exemption if they meet the commercial test and the dependent-
variable test laid out in the definition of a CUBP. 
   e. Interpretation of "immediately contained and destroyed 
by the producer"-(i) Immediately contained and destroyed. EPA 
proposed that the phrase "immediately contained and destroyed" 
as used in the Joint Explanatory Statement be defined to allow 
for a 90-day storage period before destruction is required. 
This requirement would be similar to RCRA restrictions on the 
storage of hazardous waste prior to destruction.
   Two commenters mentioned that the 90-day period is reasonable, 
but stated that where there is a shortage of incineration capacity 
a longer period should be allowed if the material is stored 
in RCRA-permitted tanks. These companies maintained that this 
exception may be necessary to make best use of MACT without 
over-building incinerators. This is particularly true of the 
period from 1995 to 1997 when MACT for eliminating CUBP carbon 
tetrachloride may not yet be widely available, but production 
allowances are reduced to 15 percent of the baseline. Moreover, 
one company asserted that the 90-day period should refer to 
the time that the carbon tetrachloride may remain at the producer's 
site before it must be shipped off-site for destruction (assuming 
that it is not destroyed on-site); and that at the destruction 
site it may be stored as long as necessary in accordance with 
RCRA. This company maintained that the 90-day period should 
refer to the time allowed until destruction or shipment to a 
destruction facility, and that the producer should not be held 
responsible for delays in off-site incinerator destruction. 
   Another company discussed an example of CUBP carbon tetrachloride 
that was not listed as hazardous waste and thus would not be 
subject to RCRA requirements for storage/destruction. The commenter 
stated that the Agency should allow at least 15 months for the 
material's eventual destruction and not limit the storage period 
to 90 days. 
   The Agency is concerned primarily that the controlled substance 
not be released to the atmosphere. This concern is largely alleviated 
if the CUBP is contained immediately after it was produced or 
left the reactor. As long as the material is contained, the 
actual time of destruction is less crucial. Indeed, the Joint 
Explanatory Statement arguably reflects such an approach, as 
"immediately" clearly modifies "contained" but does not necessarily 
modify "destroyed." 
   The Agency will thus grant a CUBP exemption if a company 
can show that it can adequately contain the chemical and that 
it has made definite provisions for its destruction. Although 
under these regulations there is no specific time period during 
which the destruction must take place, companies will of course 
still be subject to the RCRA limits to the extent that the material 
is a hazardous waste (e.g., 90 days for a non-RCRA-permitted 
generator or 180 days for a small quantity generator) and must 
provide documentation that they are in compliance with the relevant 
statute(s) (RCRA, Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act) when applying 
for the exemption, by providing EPA with copies of permits, 
manifests, exemptions, or other official documents. 
   One company stated that the term "immediately contained" 
should refer to the capture and containment of carbon tetrachloride 
after it is removed from the process in which it is inadvertently 
generated. This company maintained that although in general 
the 90-day period would be appropriate, for continuous, closed-
loop processes, this criterion is meaningless. The company suggested 
that in these instances, the continuous purge of the closed-
loop process should also be considered immediately contained 
and destroyed. 
   The Agency agrees that such a process would be eligible for 
a CUBP exemption if the material is completely contained at 
all times, and the destruction device removes the chemical with 
at least 99.99 percent efficiency. This treatment of closed-
loop processes is consistent with the definition of solid waste 
under RCRA (40 CFR part 261), which exempts materials reprocessed 
in closed-loop systems. 
   One company maintained that an adequate time must be allotted 
for the storage and destruction of the coincidentally produced 
by-product. This company stated that if a 90-day time limit 
were imposed, it should not begin to elapse until a reasonable 
quantity (e.g., 1,000 lbs) had been collected and packaged for 
safe transport to the destruction facility. The small quantity 
of carbon tetrachloride produced daily may not be enough for 
economical destruction. This company suggested that the time 
limit would commence after 1,000 pounds had been collected. 
   Again, insofar as the company is operating in compliance 
with applicable statutes (e.g., CAA, RCRA, CWA), containment 
is complete, and an appropriate destruction strategy is planned, 
these regulations allow the storage of approved CUBP material 
until an adequate quantity has been accumulated for destruction. 
Companies should include in their request for exemption a description 
of their handling of the CUBP an estimation of the amount accumulated 
and the period of time for which it is stored. 
   (ii) Destruction by the producer: On-site versus off-site. 
In the proposal, the Agency also discussed the meaning of "immediately 
contained and destroyed by the producer" from the standpoint 
of where the destruction must occur. EPA suggested that small 
generators of carbon tetrachloride might currently ship their 
waste off-site and requested comment on whether the phrase could 
be interpreted to permit both off-site and on-site destruction. 
   Several commenters maintained that EPA should permit off-
site destruction or contracting with another firm for destruction 
because in some cases adequate incineration capacity is not 
available on-site, and it would be unfair to require that each 
producer have an incinerator. These comments also stated that 
if transport and destruction of carbon tetrachloride are conducted 
in a manner consistent with RCRA, it should be sufficient for 
title VI as well, and that EPA should clarify that "destroyed 
by the producer" is not being interpreted restrictively. One 
company noted that there may be many small generators who require 
incineration off-site. Another company agreed that off-site 
incineration should be allowed in light of the difficulty of 
burning or incinerating halogenated hydrocarbons and the difficulty 
of constructing new incinerators. This company maintained that 
as long as the release of carbon tetrachloride is controlled 
and the material is destroyed by a technology meeting the level 
of destruction efficiency identified in the applicable RCRA 
regulation, it should not matter whether such destruction occurs 
on-site or off-site. 
   The Agency has determined that there would be no measurable 
environmental benefit to restricting the exemption to on-site 
destruction by the producer itself. Furthermore, the Joint Explanatory 
Statement does not necessarily require that the producer destroy 
the chemical itself, but only that it be responsible for its 
destruction. Since carbon tetrachloride emissions and treatment 
are already tracked under RCRA, allowing the material to be 
destroyed off-site does not entail a loss of accountability. 
EPA has determined that if the manufacturer can show that it 
has made provisions for sufficiently efficient destruction of 
the carbon tetrachloride (off-site, on-site, or through a contractor) 
it will be eligible for the exemption. 
   One commenter stated that since the carbon tetrachloride 
is produced as a result of a chemical manufacturing operation, 
EPA should require that it be destroyed on-site and under strictly 
controlled conditions. This company contended that to send the 
carbon tetrachloride off-site, considering that it has no commercial 
value, would constitute an unnecessary exposure to the general 
public of its harmful properties 
   EPA currently regulates carbon tetrachloride waste generation, 
transport, and treatment under RCRA. The regulations under this 
statute give standards for each handler of the carbon tetrachloride 
and require that safeguards be taken in order to avoid unnecessary 
exposure to the general public. In the absence of any claims 
that these precautions are inadequate to protect the public 
welfare, the Agency finds that it would be inappropriate to 
make any further restrictions in this rulemaking. Thus by-product 
carbon tetrachloride produced and destroyed on-site or off-site 
is eligible for consideration for an exemption. 
   f. Extension of the exemption. In the NPRM, the Agency requested 
comment on what other controlled substances should be considered 
for exemptions in addition to carbon tetrachloride. 
   One company suggested that the destroyed-CUBP exemption be 
allowed for methyl chloroform as well. It was estimated that 
three percent of the 1987 methyl chloroform production was destroyed 
by incineration, and that as the availability of control equipment 
increases, methyl chloroform incineration will also increase. 
   Since methyl chloroform is currently produced as a CUBP in 
several production processes and is frequently destroyed, the 
Agency is allowing an exemption for coincidentally produced, 
incinerated methyl chloroform as well. The same destruction 
techniques are available for methyl chloroform and carbon tetrachloride, 
neither of which contain fluorine or bromine that can attack 
the refractive materials in incinerators, and RCRA standards 
for destruction of methyl chloroform that is a hazardous waste 
are the same as those for destruction of carbon tetrachloride. 
All the standards discussed above for determining whether or 
not a particular case qualifies for an exemption will apply 
for methyl chloroform, as well as carbon tetrachloride. 
   The Agency recognizes that Montreal Protocol controls take 
effect for methyl chloroform in 1993, and that Clean Air Act 
requirements are more stringent than the Protocol controls until 
1995. The Agency is not promulgating a system for distributing 
exemptions during these control periods at this time. If no 
more methyl chloroform is destroyed during the 1993 and 1994 
control period than is the case now (about three percent), the 
gap between the Montreal Protocol limit (100 percent of the 
baseline) and the Clean Air Act limit (90 percent of the baseline) 
should be more than enough to allow all companies with qualifying 
processes to be exempted. If, in 1992, requests for exemptions 
greatly exceed expectations and total more than ten percent 
of production in the baseline year, EPA will propose a method 
for distribution of exemptions for destroyed-CUBP methyl chloroform 
in a separate notice. As for 1995 and beyond, the Agency believes 
that appropriate destruction techniques will have been defined 
by 1995, when Montreal Protocol controls and Clean Air Act controls 
coincide. If the Parties do not define appropriate destruction 
techniques by 1995, however, the Agency will no longer grant 
exemptions at that time. 
   Several commenters also suggested that other controlled substances 
produced as by-products be exempted. Another commenter asserted 
that any listed compound that meets the exemption criteria should 
be provided the exemption. Another company wrote that the definition 
of coincidentally-produced material should include other compounds 
in addition to carbon tetrachloride because during the manufacture 
of halons and other halocarbons, for instance, certain CFCs 
may be produced in small quantities as by-products. 
   Since CFC and halon production is currently restricted under 
the Montreal Protocol, and these substances can be destroyed 
only with difficulty and under special circumstances, the Agency 
will not at this time grant exemptions for them. Although destruction 
techniques have been identified, destruction facilities are 
not widely available for these substances, due to their tendency 
to corrode incinerator walls, and the Agency does not believe 
that it is appropriate to approve exemptions for their destruction 
prior to the Protocol Parties' designation of approved destruction 
techniques. When the Parties to the Protocol complete their 
analysis of destruction techniques, EPA will again examine the 
issue of granting the exemption for all controlled substances 
that are incidentally produced and destroyed by the techniques 
approved by the Parties. 

2. Exemptions for De Minimis By-Product Production of Controlled 
Substances in Groups I-III 

   One company commented that the Agency has insufficient information 
relating to the incidental generation of controlled substances 
and is focusing only on the companies producing these materials 
as mainstream products in its proposal to exempt incidental, 
destroyed carbon tetrachloride. The commenter noted that a number 
of chlorination processes could result in the coincidental generation 
of small amounts of carbon tetrachloride. These processes would 
be prohibited by EPA's proposed regulations (e.g. a municipality 
chlorinating its drinking water supply). This company maintained 
that this is not a reasonable position for CUBPs generated as 
part of manufacturing or chlorination processes and stated that 
the Agency should obtain information concerning the environmental 
impacts of halogen chemistry in order to fashion a rational 
program to exclude from the regulations such de minimis generation 
until it is shown to pose an environmental problem. The suggestion 
was made in this comment that the Agency should investigate 
the unintended impacts of its regulations beyond the ozone depleting 
compound producing industry. 
   The Agency agrees that an exemption for de minimis by-product 
production whether or not it is destroyed could potentially 
be warranted in order to efficiently implement the phaseout. 
However, EPA has insufficient information on the subject at 
this time and thus will be requesting information from the regulated 
community in an upcoming Federal Register notice. The Agency 
has determined that additional study will be necessary to determine 
whether de minimis generation should be exempt from the phaseout. 
Persons that produce controlled substances in Group I, II or 
III as by-products of manufacturing processes will be required 
to provide information on the processes and the quantities of 
by-products being produced. In addition, companies that have 
fugitive emissions of any of the class I substances will be 
asked to report the annual amount that is emitted from each 
of their plants. For those companies that have this type of 
manufacturing process but that did not report it as production 
under the November 26, 1990 information request and thus have 
no allowances to cover their production, the Agency requests 
that this data be submitted as soon as possible so that allowances 
may be allotted or the issue may be otherwise resolved. 
   A suggestion was made by one company that the Agency should 
allow some de minimis generation of CFCs during the production 
of HCFCs and HFCs, such as a one-percent de minimis level in 
the production stream for exclusion from the scope of the regulations. 
Another company commented that a by-product that is not destroyed 
after production, or sold as feedstock and transformed, should 
be subject to the production phaseout. 
   The Agency is considering such an exemption from the phaseout 
for controlled substances in Groups I, II, and III that are 
produced as coincidental, unavoidable by-products of a manufacturing 
process. However, the Agency must investigate appropriate technologies 
and appropriate de minimis levels and the environmental impact 
of de minimis production for these groups of chemicals before 
a final decision can be reached. Persons that possess relevant 
information on this subject will be asked to submit it in an 
upcoming Federal Register notice. 

3. Other Exemptions 

   In the NPRM, EPA requested comment on how some of the exemptions 
provided for in the Clean Air Act, but not in the Montreal Protocol, 
could be implemented in the future. The Agency noted, however, 
that under the exemption provisions themselves as well as section 
614(b), it could not implement these exemptions unless and until 
it could do so in a way that was consistent with the Protocol. 
Since the Protocol does not yet permit these exemptions from 
its requirements, the Agency may not implement them, except 
to the extent that the Clean Air Act's limits are more stringent 
than the Protocol's. In such cases, the Clean Air Act creates 
a margin in which exemptions could be granted without running 
afoul of the Protocol. Even within this "compliance margin," 
the Agency is not making provisions for granting the exemptions 
because they are not warranted at this time, given the likely 
availability of the controlled substances under the Clean Air 
Act limits in at least the near term. The Agency is particularly 
hesitant to grant exemptions that are not currently vital since 
the Parties to the Protocol have not yet made provision for 
such exemptions. Furthermore, The Agency believes that these 
exemptions will for the most part not be needed until the time 
that the U.S. approaches the phaseout date. A summary and analysis 
of the comments received on the need for and implementation 
of the exemptions follows. 
   a. Halons. Section 604(g)(1) allows the Administrator to 
grant limited exemptions from the percentage reduction requirements 
for certain halons for purposes of fire suppression or explosion 
prevention where no safe and effective substitute has been developed. 
Paragraph (3) of that subsection also allows a limited exemption 
from the phaseout for halons needed for the same purposes in 
association with energy production on the North Slope of Alaska. 
   On the issue of implementing the exemptions to the extent 
that differences in the stringency between the Clean Air Act 
and the Protocol allow, one company commented that there is 
no guarantee that halon demand and production will continue 
to remain below allowable levels. It stated that, because there 
is no national halon recycling or banking infrastructure and 
no known substitute for Halon 1301 in situations requiring the 
inertion of an occupied enclosed space for explosion prevention, 
demand could require new halon production in amounts greater 
than those allowed by the interim reduction requirements. 
   The Agency has monitored halon production, and to date, production 
is well below the allowed amount. In addition, halon demand 
is expected to decrease over the next few years as companies 
adopt alternative fire protection methods or chemical substitutes 
and as a bank for the storage and recycling of halons is established. 
   Another company commented that it is inappropriate to prohibit 
halon production exemptions in association with domestic crude 
oil or natural gas production on the North Slope of Alaska because 
the Parties have yet to agree to any such exemptions after the 
phaseout year. Two companies suggested that EPA should convene 
a STOPAC (Stratospheric Ozone Protection Advisory Committee) 
subcommittee of users and manufacturers to advise EPA on how 
exemptions should be implemented and maintained that EPA should 
acknowledge that the exemptions contained in the Clean Air Act 
may be applicable if at some future date the Parties amend the 
Protocol such that both it and the Clean Air Act are consistent. 
   In response, the Agency notes that it is not in any way eliminating 
the possibility of future exemptions, but at present does not 
believe that they are warranted, given the likely continued 
availability of controlled substances under Clean Air Act limits. 
For this reason, EPA believes that it would be premature to 
convene a STOPAC meeting on exemption implementation at this 
time. 
   b. Methyl chloroform. Section 604(d)(1) provides for another 
exemption specifically for essential uses of methyl chloroform, 
for which no safe and effective substitute is available. 
   One commenter asserted that methyl chloroform is an important 
transitional substance because of its low ODP and believed that 
when it is used as a replacement for CFCs it should be considered 
for exemption from the phaseout. 
   The Agency is required to phaseout methyl chloroform according 
to a specified schedule under the Clean Air Act and the Montreal 
Protocol, and substitution for CFCs could not be construed to 
be an "essential use" per se. EPA concurs with another commenter's 
view that exemptions should be left open until the availability 
of methyl chloroform is far more constrained and until the Parties 
have agreed on whether they are appropriate and if so in what 
applications. 
   c. Analytical and research purposes. One commenter requested 
an exemption for the use of carbon tetrachloride and CFCs for 
analytical and research purposes. This company maintained that 
they are unable to purchase carbon tetrachloride due to the 
current production and consumption limits. This company distributes 
carbon tetrachloride in small packages to laboratories for chemical 
analytical purposes and research, uses that are considered emissive. 
The comment provided the following example: Carbon tetrachloride 
and other CFCs are necessary as standards in testing for trace 
levels of contamination in drinking water, and no alternative 
products can be used to prepare standard solutions for this 
application. This comment proposes an exemption of the continued 
manufacture and use of these chemicals for use as analytical 
reagents in small quantities. 
   The Agency believes that such exemptions are not currently 
necessary, given the continued availability of production and 
consumption allowances for the ozone depleting chemicals. Since 
these research and analytical uses require only small quantities 
of the chemical, exemptions from the phaseout should not be 
needed to satisfy laboratory needs at this time. Since production 
and consumption of carbon tetrachloride is currently limited, 
but has yet to be completely phased out, EPA does not believe 
that companies should experience difficulties in locating suppliers 
of small quantities of the material. 

D. Basic Prohibitions 


1. Compliance 

   The September 30, 1991 proposal included a section on basic 
prohibitions (82.4), which stipulated that no person may produce 
controlled substances at any time during any control period 
in excess of the amount of unexpended production allowances 
held by that person at that time, and that no person may produce 
or import controlled substances at any time during any control 
period in excess of the amount of unexpended consumption allowances 
held by that person at that time. For all the controlled substances 
except carbon tetrachloride, these requirements are identical 
to those that were originally promulgated in the August 12, 
1988 rule limiting the production and consumption of CFCs and 
halons. 
   Two companies commented that the final regulations should 
apply production and consumption limits annually, rather than 
daily. These companies maintained that the Clean Air Act Amendments 
and the Montreal Protocol both provide for annual limits, and, 
therefore, that EPA has no statutory authority to require that 
companies have allowances before they produce or import instead 
of having sufficient allowances at the end of the control period 
to cover their total production and imports for the period. 
   The Agency does not agree that it lacks authority to require 
persons to possess allowances before they may produce or import 
ozone-depleting substances. While 604's limits may be enforced 
on an end-of-year basis only as the commenters suggest, the 
statute itself does not require that they be so enforced. Section 
604(b) calls on EPA to issue regulations implementing the phaseout 
in accordance with that and other applicable sections of the 
statute. Section 607(a) provides for issuance of allowances, 
as the Agency had done in its original phaseout regulations, 
and section 614(b) provides that Title VI provisions are to 
be construed in a manner that does not abrogate the U.S. obligations 
under the Protocol. In its original rule, the Agency required 
persons to hold allowances before they produced or imported 
to minimize the potential for exceedances that could cause the 
U.S. to exceed its Protocol limits. While the Protocol's limits 
were (and remain) annual, EPA judged that requiring allowances 
to be held at the time a person produced or imported was a worthwhile 
precaution against U.S. noncompliance with the Protocol. Nothing 
in title VI or its legislative history suggests that Congress 
disagreed with or intended to change the Agency's approach to 
implementing reductions in ozone-depleting substances. Indeed, 
Congress' adoption of EPA's allowance system suggests its satisfaction 
with EPA's approach to implementing the Protocol. If Congress 
had meant to prohibit EPA from requiring allowances to be held 
"up-front," surely it would have specified such a change to 
EPA's program. 
   Two companies asserted that the proposed rule, even if within 
the Agency's authority, represents overregulation and reflects 
an unfounded distrust of controlled substance producers. They 
commented that a daily test constitutes excessive interference 
in business practices and places an enormous accounting burden 
on producers without benefit to EPA or the environment. One 
company maintained that daily accounting creates problems for 
ozone depleting chemical producers that sell their products 
for export or transformation and expect to receive production 
and consumption allowances in the future as the result of such 
uses. 
   The Agency disagrees with these comments. As stated above, 
requiring compliance by requiring the holding of allowances 
prior to production and consumption is appropriate in view of 
the U.S. obligations under the Montreal Protocol. Moreover, 
neither EPA nor producers of the original controlled substances 
have had difficulties with this system in the past. 
   This compliance mechanism is also necessary for EPA to track 
allowances throughout the control period in order to ascertain 
whether trades can be carried out without endangering compliance. 
Since companies can trade allowances at any time during a control 
period, the Agency must be aware of their compliance status 
in order to ensure that the trade will not result in a company's 
expending more allowances than it holds. 
   In general, the commenters on this subject appeared to be 
concerned with recouping allowances expended in the production 
of controlled substances for export or transformation. To the 
extent that the system for the tracking of carbon tetrachloride 
will no longer require this cycling of allowances, as described 
later, EPA believes that companies should have little difficulty 
remaining in compliance with the regulations. 
   One company stated that EPA would be able to assess compliance 
or stop drastic non-compliance without imposing a daily test. 
This company suggested that the Agency use quarterly reports 
to assess compliance and, if a company exceeds its allowances 
during a given quarter, require the company to submit evidence 
(such as its customers' IRS Certifications) that it would be 
able to retrieve enough allowances by the year's end. 
   EPA believes that the requirement for quarterly reports as 
well as the requirement for companies to have allowances before 
they produce or import are both necessary to ensure compliance 
with the production and consumption limits. In addition, the 
suggested control system would make it impossible for the Agency 
to monitor trading of allowances during the course of each quarter. 
Consequently, the Agency is continuing to follow the system 
established in the 1988 regulations and is requiring that companies 
keep records on a daily basis and report quarterly and that 
companies hold adequate unexpended allowances to cover their 
activities. 

2. Consumption Limits 

   The proposed regulations required that companies that import 
controlled substances must hold consumption allowances, and 
may not import controlled substances in amounts that exceed 
their level of unexpended consumption allowances at any time. 
A controlled substance is imported at such time that it enters 
U.S. territory, with the exception of Maquiladora transactions 
where controlled substances of U.S. origin are imported into 
Mexico in-bond and then re-imported into the U.S. The regulations 
apply to any bulk quantity of the listed chemicals, including 
recycled material or that intended for recycling. 
   One company commented that, from a policy perspective, it 
is inappropriate to require a party to use consumption allowances 
for the import of used controlled substances that will be recycled. 
According to the company, it should be apparent that any quantity 
of used controlled substance that is recycled will be used in 
place of new production, thereby reducing controlled substance 
production. The same company maintained that the siting of recycling 
facilities should not be artificially affected by the need to 
use consumption allowances for imports. This company stated 
that this issue will be important in later phases of the phaseout 
when it is likely that the quantity of consumption allowances 
will not be sufficient to allow for both production of virgin 
material and for import of used controlled substances for reclamation. 
An alternative approach suggested by this company would be to 
allow used controlled substances to be transported across national 
boundaries for the purposes of reclamation without counting 
them towards the recipient country's consumption limit. 
   The Agency first notes that there is no assurance that recycled 
controlled substances will be used in place of new production. 
Indeed, the Agency expects that as the phaseout progresses, 
recycled substances will be used as a supplement to new production. 
In any event, the Protocol requires that imports of used controlled 
substances be included in the calculation of consumption, because 
of the practical difficulty of distinguishing between used and 
new substances. Exempting imports of controlled substances from 
applicable consumption limits would create a strong incentive 
to mislabel new controlled substances as used. Moreover, EPA 
does not believe that the expenditure of consumption allowances 
for imports of used controlled substances for recycling constitutes 
a disincentive or an obstacle to recycling. The domestic use 
and recycling of controlled substances is not restricted under 
these regulations and consumption allowances are not required 
to recycle controlled substances. Only used or recycled material 
crossing international borders is affected by the availability 
of consumption allowances. However, if this material is then 
re-exported, consumption allowances expended for the imports 
may be recovered upon export of the material through a request 
for additional consumption allowances. Thus, there may be no 
net loss in consumption allowances. Even under the phaseout, 
controlled substances could still be imported as long as at 
least an equal amount is exported (annual consumption must equal 
zero). To the extent that the suggestion is that material would 
leave the country, be recycled, and returned (or vice versa) 
this should not be a problem. 

E. General Stringency of Regulations and Phaseout Schedule 

   The Agency proposed the phaseout schedule Congress set forth 
in the Act. In the NPRM, EPA noted that recent scientific evidence 
suggested a need to accelerate the phaseout schedule. The Agency 
explained, however, that the tight statutory deadline to which 
this rulemaking is subject did not permit the Agency to consider 
such an acceleration within the scope of the rulemaking. 
   One commenter stated that the rules should be formulated 
to be as stringent as possible in eliminating the production 
of controlled substances and preventing their emission to the 
atmosphere, and that there are too many provisions in the proposal 
for companies to increase their production allowances and not 
enough incentives for companies to reduce the world market of 
ozone depleting chemicals. The commenter urgently recommended 
revisions to the rule to accelerate the phaseout and to broaden 
the list of ozone depleting chemicals. 
   For the reasons cited above, today's regulations implement 
the phaseout schedule specified by the Clean Air Act. The Agency 
notes, though, that the production of ozone depleting chemicals 
is being further decreased due to the effects of the excise 
tax implemented by the IRS. Currently no companies are increasing 
their production of ozone-depletors and significant efforts 
are underway to find substitutes. However, as new scientific 
and technology developments occur, and in response to petitions 
received under the Clean Air Act Section 606, EPA will reassess 
the schedules contained in this rule. As mentioned previously, 
the Agency is currently evaluating one such petition, received 
on December 3, 1991. 

F. Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements 


1. Daily Production Records 

   The proposed regulations require producers to keep dated 
production records. One commenter claimed that daily mass balancing 
is unworkable because although daily production records exist, 
they contain only rough measurements. This company maintained 
that monthly rather than daily documentation should be used 
for mass balancing. This is because it takes several days for 
material to be completely processed and only then can it be 
measured for the purpose of a mass balance. In addition, this 
company asserted that improving the daily accounting would cost 
hundreds of thousands of dollars per plant, and still would 
not be as accurate as monthly documentation. 
   This comment is similar to comments received in response 
to the NPRM implementing the Montreal Protocol in 1987. At that 
time EPA determined that daily recordkeeping is important and 
that it is common business practice to keep daily records. Based 
on its review of data submitted by producers, EPA believes that 
current methods of daily recordkeeping will be sufficient to 
satisfy the requirements. Daily mass balancing is not required. 
The Agency recognizes that daily records may consist of rough 
measurements and as such are generally used by inspectors, not 
for a direct mass balance, but primarily as a check when discrepancies 
in other records are found. 

2. Class II Reporting 

   The Agency proposed that, as required by the Clean Air Act, 
producers, importers, and exporters of Class II chemicals report 
their activities to the Agency on an annual basis. 
   One company's comments expressed support for quarterly Class 
I reports and annual Class II reports. Moreover, the company 
believed that the Agency should maintain all reports of HCFC 
activity in confidence until such time as it has established 
baseline levels for each of the producers. 
   The Agency follows the procedures outlined in 40 CFR subpart 
2 when companies submit information with a confidentiality claim. 
Unless a specific finding is made that the information is not 
entitled to confidential treatment, the Agency will maintain 
it as such until disclosure is needed to carry out a Clean Air 
Act provision, including section 607 which requires the establishment 
of baselines. Aggregate production and consumption information 
on the HCFCs will be submitted to the Protocol secretariat at 
UNEP in fulfillment of EPA's reporting requirements to that 
body under the Montreal Protocol once the amendments enter into 
force. 

G. Exchanges 


1. Domestic Trading-Environmental Offset 

   a. Offset amount. Section 607 of the Clean Air Act provides 
for trading of allowances between chemicals in the same group. 
It requires, however, that any trade must "result in greater 
total reductions in production in each year of class I and class 
II substances than would occur in that year in the absence of 
such transactions." In the NPRM, the Agency proposed an implementation 
strategy for this environmental offset. EPA argued that it could 
not predict what would have occurred in the absence of the trade, 
and proposed that the assumption be made that all allowances 
available would be used in the absence of the trade. Based on 
this assumption, the required offset could be calculated every 
time a trade occurred, by subtracting a certain percentage of 
the amount of the trade from the transferor's unexpended allowances. 
EPA proposed that this percentage be based on the level of measurement 
error that companies would likely build into their compliance 
margin and upon the level of environmental benefit resulting 
from the offset, and arrived at a one-percent offset, although 
comment was requested on offset amounts of 0.1 percent and on 
two percent. 
   A number of commenters maintained that EPA had taken a satisfactory 
approach to the offset requirement by presuming reasonably that 
companies would have used allowances being transferred if a 
trade did not occur. An industry group noted that the evaluation 
of whether allowances would have been used in the absence of 
trades would have been highly subjective, even in the case of 
plant-closings, because a company may have kept its plant open 
if it had known that it could not trade its allowances. 
   One company commented that EPA should review the impact of 
the one-percent offset on the ability of the producing companies 
to supply both the needs of the U.S. and those of its trading 
partners. According to this company, as the phaseout schedules 
take effect and less virgin material is available to service 
the needs of the U.S., the Agency may need to revisit its decision. 
   The Agency believes that a one-percent offset will not cause 
any shortages or difficulties in supplying the country's needs 
for ozone depleting chemicals. If at some future date the offset 
becomes a significant problem, the Agency can revisit the issue. 
   The same industry group commented that the analysis on the 
margin of error in the NPRM was not relevant to the calculation 
of an appropriate environmental offset. The Agency had stated 
that the offset amount should be related to the measurement 
error present in companies' production estimations. The commenter 
stated that the margin of error moves rather than disappears 
when allowances are transferred, and thus the level of the offset 
does not need to be related to the level of measurement error. 
   EPA's concern was that if the percentage selected for the 
environmental offset were smaller than companies' actual production 
measurement error, there could be no guarantee that the trades 
would result in lower overall production. The Agency agrees 
that to a large extent, the margin of error would move with 
a transfer of allowances, since a cushion for measurement error 
would have to be maintained and production would be reduced 
accordingly. For example, if a company had 200 production allowances 
(authorizing 200 kg of production), and had a production measurement 
error of one percent, the company would probably not plan to 
produce more than 1981.98 kg of controlled substances. If the 
company traded away 100 allowances with a one-percent offset, 
it would only have 99 allowances left, and would likely only 
produce 980.98 kg. The receiving company would similarly produce 
only 990.99 kg, so the total production would only reach 1971.97 
kg; the environmental offset would have effectively reduced 
total production by one kilogram. At the same time, the Agency 
notes that permitting allowances to be traded increases the 
value of any compliance cushion that companies build in and 
thus creates an incentive to share it. Overall, however, the 
Agency believes that regardless of particular companies' measurement 
errors, a one-percent offset will be sufficient to ensure an 
overall production reduction as a result of allowance transfers. 
   The group accepted EPA's conclusion that the offset should 
be at least 0.1 percent in order to satisfy the statutory requirement. 
Another commenter also agreed that 0.1 percent is quantifiable 
and enforceable and commented that one percent is excessive 
and unnecessary. The industry group stated that a one-percent 
offset is more than sufficient to satisfy statutory requirements, 
but that the greater the percentage, the more trading will be 
discouraged. 
   None of the commenters presented compelling evidence that 
a one-percent offset would be damaging to industry or to trading, 
however. Therefore, the Agency does not believe that a reduction 
of the proposed one-percent offset is warranted. EPA analysis 
shows that one percent is an appropriate number to ensure a 
measurable environmental benefit while not harming business 
unnecessarily. 
   Several commenters endorsed the proposed one-percent offset 
factor, and believed that higher offset penalties will only 
discourage and hinder trading between chemicals, thereby resulting 
in less efficient utilization of production facilities and in 
increased costs to the economy. 
   The Agency agrees that an offset larger than one percent 
would be likely to discourage trading and could be harmful to 
small businesses. For this reason, it is adopting the proposed 
offset factor of one percent. 
   Two companies stated that although EPA explained in the preamble 
to the proposed regulations that a single trade between parties 
and chemicals should only be subject to one offset, the proposed 
regulations were unclear on this point. This company suggested 
that the language in 82.12 be clarified to remove any doubt. 
   The Agency has added language to 82.12 clarifying this point. 
It has also added language to specify that only trades of consumption 
and production allowances are subject to the offset. As discussed 
in the NPRM, trades of "authorizations to convert" or "potential 
production allowances" are not subject to the offset. 
   b. Intra-company trading. One comment stated that EPA should 
make it clear that the offset does not apply to intra-company 
transfers, citing section 607(c) of the Clean Air Act, which 
refers to trades between "2 or more persons." 
   The Agency notes that section 607(a) requires that the Agency 
promulgate rules for trading that "shall insure that the transactions 
under the authority of this section will result in greater total 
reductions in the production in each year of class I and class 
II substances than would occur in that year in the absence of 
such transactions." Among the transactions authorized under 
this section are interpollutant transfers (section 607(b)) which 
permit allowances for one type of controlled substance to be 
exchanged for another type within the same group. These are 
the types of trades that would occur within a company as well 
as between companies. Although section 607(a)'s general statement 
could be interpreted to allow other methods of calculating the 
offset than set forth in section 607(c), using two different 
offset systems for trades between different companies and trades 
within the same company would be unnecessarily complex. Since 
both types of trades must be subject to an offset, the Agency 
finds that it is most logical to use the same offset for both. 
   Another company commented that where a trade occurs within 
the same corporate organization, domestically or internationally, 
it should not be necessary for a company to obtain advance authorization 
of the trade. This company asserted that the administration 
of this requirement would be burdensome on EPA and industry. 
Moreover, since the same company is on both sides of the trade, 
it is fully responsible for compliance and thus there is no 
need for EPA to pre-approve a company's production schedule. 
The company maintained that quarterly reports should be adequate. 
   The Agency does not agree that requiring EPA notification 
of intra-company trades is administratively burdensome. The 
number of such trades will be small. For the NPRM, the Agency 
analyzed of the trades of chemical-specific allowances that 
would have been necessary in the first control period, and found 
that fewer than five trades would have been needed for a large 
ozone depleting substance producer. In addition, the Agency's 
past experience with the ozone depleting chemical industry indicates 
that production plans do not change from day to day. Thus, the 
number of trades during the year is not expected to be large. 
The Agency notes that only towards the end of the control period, 
when allowances are being used up, would intra-company trading 
activity be likely to pick up. Even then, EPA believes its experience 
with trades and its commitment to communicate objections to 
trades within three days of receipt will ensure that trades 
late in the control period will be processed quickly. 
   The same commenter stated that requiring Agency pre-approval 
of each shift in the mix of chemicals produced by a single company 
is wasteful of resources and does little to accomplish improved 
compliance with the Clean Air Act and the Montreal Protocol. 
   If U.S. treaty obligations were not at stake, EPA non-objection 
might not be regarded by EPA as worthwhile. As a leader in the 
phaseout of ozone-depleting substances and with the existence 
of an international agreement, however, EPA believes it must 
take extra care that compliance is achieved. In this context, 
the Agency disagrees that the requirement to notify EPA prior 
to intra-company trades does little to improve prospects for 
compliance with the Clean Air Act and the Montreal Protocol. 
Since companies may trade allowances at any time during the 
control period, the Agency must be aware at all times of the 
number of allowances held by each company. For example, if a 
company internally traded all its allowances from CFC-114 to 
CFC-115 and then proposed to trade CFC-115 allowances to another 
company, EPA would not know that the company has CFC-115 allowances 
to trade and would object to the trade. Likewise, if the company 
did not have any CFC-114 allowances left, yet proposed to trade 
them, the Agency would not object to the trade and the second 
company could produce CFC-114 without there being any actual 
allowances to cover the production. In this way, compliance 
with the Montreal Protocol and the Clean Air Act would be endangered. 
The Agency also notes that EPA has only three business days 
in which to object to a trade, and thus companies would not 
be hindered by a paperwork bottleneck that could hinder the 
implementation of production plans. 
   c. Transformer trading. One commenter maintained that the 
proposed rule subjecting feedstock purchasers to the "offset" 
requirement when allowances necessary for the purchase of feedstocks 
are traded is unlawful and serves no legitimate purpose. This 
company also stated that the non-manufacturing feedstock users 
would be forced to compete in the market for increasingly scarce 
allowances. This company noted that each time a feedstock purchaser 
attempted to exchange his regenerated allowances with a manufacturer 
in order to facilitate the purchase of additional feedstocks 
it would be subject to a one-percent reduction. After 20 such 
cycles in one control period, the purchaser's allowances would 
be reduced by 17 percent. If product use expands, which may 
occur, the effect of repetitively applied offsets combined with 
diminishing allowances would create a shortage of allowances 
and feedstock. One of the most disturbing effects, according 
to this company, is that new feedstock uses, such as for CFC 
substitutes, would never be launched. Furthermore, this company 
commented that feedstock purchasers would gradually suffocate 
from lack of supply, while feedstock manufacturers would be 
awash with excess feedstock material. 
   The Agency agrees that placing an offset on trades, the purpose 
of which is to replenish allowances expended in feedstock production, 
is not mandated by the Act. Section 607 requires that allowance 
trades result in lower production than otherwise would have 
occurred. Under current market conditions, transformers receive 
allowances and trade them back to feedstock producers on the 
basis that the chemical originally produced was used as a feedstock, 
and, therefore, does not count as production. In that way, allowances 
expended to produce substances later transformed are only temporarily 
expended. As such, the "trade" of these allowances is simply 
an allowance reimbursement. 
   The same commenter asserted that the offset applied to transformers 
is classically anti-competitive in that it requires feedstock 
users to compete for diminishing supplies, thus driving the 
market price up unnecessarily and bestowing further advantage 
on those who manufacture their own feedstocks. This anti-competitive 
and economically damaging spiral of prices is not intended or 
sanctioned by the legislation and is sufficient reason, standing 
alone, to adopt an alternative regulatory scheme, according 
to this company. The commenter stated that the language employed 
in section 607 shows that the drafters did not envision that 
offsets would be required for trades by non-producers. This 
commenter argued that since all allowances expire at the end 
of the control period, this language can logically only apply 
to those with who are allocated baseline allowances, and not 
purchasers who only have allowances they have acquired. 
   Although EPA doubts that the potentially catastrophic consequences 
predicted by this commenter would actually take place in the 
event that an offset were placed on allowance transfers from 
transformers to producers, it concedes that this would not be 
a desired result of the Act. As explained earlier, the Agency 
believes it appropriate not to apply the offset to transfers 
of production and consumption allowances from transformers to 
producers. The Agency however does not agree that all trades 
by non-producers should be exempt from the offset. Although 
section 607(c) states specifically that "the transferor of such 
allowances will be subject, under such rules, to an enforceable 
and quantifiable reduction in annual production," subsection 
(d) states that "the rules under this section shall also provide 
for the issuance of consumption allowances in accordance with 
the requirements of this title and for the trading of such allowances 
in the same manner as is applicable under this section to the 
trading of production allowances" (emphasis added). EPA interprets 
this language to mean that transferors of consumption allowances 
should be subject to a reduction in annual consumption. For 
this reason, the Agency is only exempting traders of allowances 
from the offset in cases where it is clear that the purpose 
of the trade is to reimburse a producing or importing company 
for allowances expended in the production or import of feedstock 
material or material that is later exported. All other trades 
of production and consumption allowances are subject to a one-
percent offset. 

2. International Trades 

   a. The proposal. Section 616 of the Clean Air Act provides 
that trades of production between Parties to the Protocol also 
be subject to specific conditions. "Consistent with the Montreal 
Protocol, the United States may engage in transfers with other 
Parties to the Protocol under the following conditions: 
   (1) The United States may transfer production allowances 
to another Party if, at the time of such transfer, the Administrator 
establishes revised production limits for the United States 
such that the aggregate national United States production permitted 
under the revised production limits equals the lesser of (A) 
The maximum production level permitted for the substance or 
substances concerned in the transfer year under the Protocol 
minus the production allowances transferred, (B) the maximum 
production level permitted for the substance or substances concerned 
in the transfer year under applicable domestic law minus the 
production allowances transferred, or (C) the average of the 
actual national production level of the substance or substances 
concerned for the three years prior to the transfer minus the 
production allowances transferred. 
   (2) The United States may acquire production allowances from 
another Party if, at the time of such transfer, the Administrator 
finds that the other Party has revised its domestic production 
limits in the same manner as provided with respect to transfers 
by the United States in subsection (a)." 
   Under section 616, then, trades of allowable production between 
the U.S. and a Protocol Party cannot result in an increase in 
production over what would have occurred in the absence of the 
trade. In the case of a trade to a U.S. company, the trading 
Party must agree to reduce its production to the extent prescribed 
by section 616. In the case of a U.S. company trading production 
to other Parties, the U.S. must likewise reduce its production.
   The Agency considered various methods of reducing overall 
U.S. production as called for in trades from U.S. companies 
to companies abroad, but proposed that the only fair way of 
distributing the offset would be to decrease the transferor's 
balance of production allowances by the amount required under 
section 616. Thus, the formula for calculating the transferor's 
revised production limit would be "the lesser of. (i) The unexpended 
production allowances held by the person * * * minus the amount 
transferred; or (ii) the unexpended production allowances held 
by the person * * * minus the amount by which the U.S. average 
annual production for the three years prior to the transfer 
is less than the United States' production allowable under this 
Part minus the amount transferred." 
   b. Trades from the U.S. to other Montreal Protocol parties. 
One commenter stated that although the proposal for intra-company 
international trades would appear to be workable under today's 
market conditions, as the phaseout moves forward and substitutes 
are developed, the formula will become unworkable. This is because 
the three-year average would be very low due to the rapid adoption 
of substitutes in some end uses and to the recent economic slowdown 
which has led to reduced demand for ozone depleting chemicals. 
The commenting company provided an example of how applying the 
offset could lead to severely diminished supplies of controlled 
substances in the U.S. If the U.S. were producing and consuming 
controlled substances at about 50 percent of its allowable levels, 
and that allowable level was 80 percent of baseline levels, 
the commenter claimed that a company transferring ten percent 
of its production rights to another country would severely restrict 
future production (i.e., only 80 percent minus 50 percent minus 
ten percent of the company's limits). 
   The Agency acknowledges that the U.S. production of some 
of the controlled substances has been well below allowable levels 
and agrees that implementation of section 616 could result in 
a severe curtailment of future production if a company were 
to transfer away its baseline production rights under the kind 
of scenario described above. The Agency notes, however, that 
under its proposed approach to implementing section 616, a trade 
could only take place if the U.S. transferor had enough allowances 
to permit the reduction in actual U.S. production to be reflected 
in the transferor's adjusted allowance balance. In short, using 
the example given above, the transferor would have to have allowances 
equal to at least 30 percent of U.S. baseline production for 
it to trade its allowances abroad. In this way, any resulting 
curtailment in production would be for the transferor to absorb 
and would not directly affect other companies' ability to produce. 
EPA also points out that if the U.S. were already operating 
well below its allowable production in a future control period, 
it would not need the full amount of allowable production during 
that control period and trades of allowances would not necessarily 
result in such severe cutbacks at least for that period. In 
any event, regardless of the effect on future production, the 
Act clearly requires these adjustments to the U.S. production 
limit and the need to make such adjustments should be considered 
by those contemplating trades. 
   The same commenter stated that under the Agency's proposal, 
no company other than itself may be able to transfer production 
rights because the potential shortfall in national production 
could easily exceed the total production allowances held by 
any other producer. The company suggested as trades will become 
increasingly necessary under the phaseout, and that it would 
be uneconomical and bad policy for the U.S. to undertake a program 
that would effectively prohibit international trades. 
   One company also maintained that the first company requesting 
a transfer to another Party would be disproportionately penalized 
by having to absorb the entire national difference between the 
allowable production quantity and the three-year average of 
actual annual production. 
   The Agency agrees that its proposal could have the effect 
of unfairly limiting the availability of trading and that such 
a result should be avoided. The Agency has thus changed its 
requirement so that if more than one company trades production 
of a controlled substance to another Party or Parties, they 
will equitably share the burden of absorbing any shortfall in 
national production. Thus, the allowance balance of the company 
to trade first would be reduced by the full amount of its trade 
plus the difference between the allowable production and the 
three-year national average. If another company were then to 
trade away its production allowances for the same controlled 
substance, the first company would recoup part of what it lost 
and the second company's allowance balance would be reduced. 
The exact percentage of the required reduction levied on each 
company would be proportional to the amount of each company's 
trade. Since allowances are calculated in kilograms, the offset 
would also be determined in kilograms. 
   According to several commenters, the implementation of this 
requirement of the Clean Air Act as proposed would act as a 
severe disincentive to early cutbacks beyond those required 
by the Montreal Protocol, and would have a "chilling effect" 
on the free market's distribution of production of controlled 
substances throughout the world. They also contended that EPA's 
proposal regarding transfers to other Protocol Parties could 
be onerous and unworkable as it would seriously discourage any 
company from entering into a transfer with another Party. 
   The Agency believes that the commenters' problem is with 
the terms of section 616 itself, not with the Agency's manner 
of implementing it. That section clearly calls for U.S. production 
to be reduced not only by the amount being transferred but by 
any shortfall between U.S. actual and allowable production. 
Congress called for the required reduction to be calculated 
this way in order to ensure that the production being transferred 
was not production that would have otherwise gone unused, thereby 
sparing the ozone layer that amount of potential depletion. 
The Agency, required to implement the Clean Air Act requirements, 
has simply codified the most equitable method of distributing 
the effect of this requirement. 
   The same commenters suggested that EPA take under advisement 
and further consider its proposed approach to section 616, and 
not finalize it with the rest of the rule. The Agency notes, 
however, that until it implements section 616, no trades of 
production with Protocol Parties could be undertaken. The regulations 
that were effective in 1991 expired at the end of that year. 
Section 616 sets forth the basis on which EPA may allow international 
trades. In the absence of regulations implementing that provision, 
there could be no trades. As noted above, while section 616 
may make international trades less attractive, EPA has no choice 
but to implement its requirements. 
   The Agency has altered its approach to section 616 in this 
fina1 regulation in response to comments to make it more equitable 
and less burdensome on any individual firm. As the Act is very 
specific on this point, EPA does not believe that postponing 
this section's implementation would lead to a more satisfactory 
solution. 
   c. Trades to the U.S. from other Montreal Protocol parties. 
Section 616 also allows for transfers of production from other 
countries to the United States. If the Party nation agrees to 
reduce its production limit according to the provisions set 
forth in the Act, the U.S. may increase its production by the 
amount transferred. 
   One commenter asserted that transfers of methyl chloroform 
and carbon tetrachloride production from Parties do not make 
sense because other countries do not have limits yet. This company 
commented that EPA should clarify this point, and declare that 
a statement to UNEP proving a country's reduction in production 
would be sufficient to satisfy the Clean Air Act. 
   While section 616 appears to presume the existence of Protocol 
limits on the controlled substances being transferred, EPA does 
not believe that Protocol limits need exist for it to apply 
and be applied. The purpose of section 616 is to permit the 
U.S. to transfer production to or from other Parties so long 
as the total actual production of the U.S. and the Party engaged 
in the transfer does not increase. Before Protocol limits apply, 
the same purpose can still be served so long as the Party engaged 
in the transfer has placed or will place limits on the controlled 
substances being transferred and revises or sets those limits 
to reflect the adjustment required by section 616. 
   Section 616(a) provides that the transferring Party adjust 
its production level based on its allowable production under 
the Protocol, its allowable production under domestic law or 
its average annual production for the three years prior to the 
transfer. Before Protocol limits take effect, then, adjustments 
can be calculated based on domestic limits or average production 
levels. What is essential, though, is that the adjustment be 
binding on the transferring Party. If it has domestic limits, 
it must reduce them by the amount transferred. If it has no 
limits, it must establish limits equal to the average of its 
actual production in the last three years less the amount transferred. 
   For EPA to approve transfers of controlled substances, including 
those that are not yet subject to Protocol limits, the transferee 
must submit to the Agency a signed document from the principal 
diplomatic representative in the transferring nation's embassy 
in the United States stating that the appropriate authority 
within the nation has revised or established production limits 
as described. The Agency submits that in cases where the compounds 
involved in the trade are not yet regulated under the Montreal 
Protocol, no purpose is served by sending a statement to UNEP 
that the country has reduced its production. 
   An industry group commented that it is unrealistic to expect 
other countries to revise their production limits as required 
by section 616 if the resulting limits were more stringent than 
the applicable Protocol limits. It argued that the Agency should 
not place the burden of negotiating lower national production 
limits on the U.S. company seeking the transfer and maintained 
that if the Agency did not act on a government-to-government 
basis to negotiate production reductions, no allowance trades 
from other countries could be carried out. Unless the Agency 
took part in negotiations, the group stated, allowances would 
flow only away from the U.S., resulting in lower U.S. employment 
and balance of trade without environmental gain. 
   The Agency does not believe that it is the U.S. government's 
place to negotiate with foreign governments on behalf of U.S. 
companies that wish to receive production rights from other 
nations. The Act is clear in requiring that the government of 
a Party restrict its production if a U.S. company is to receive 
production from that Party. If a foreign company wishes to transfer 
production rights, it must work with its government to achieve 
national reductions in production. Although the U.S. will continue 
to act on an international level to encourage nations to join 
the Protocol and phaseout ozone depleting substances, the Agency 
will act as an agent for U.S. firms wishing to carry out allowance 
transfers. 
   In addition, the Agency does not agree that this provision 
of the regulations will result in a one-way transfer of allowances 
away from the U.S. with negative economic consequences. Under 
the regulations, before trades of production from the U.S. can 
occur, EPA may evaluate the economic ramifications and, in cases 
where negative consequences are anticipated, disapprove the 
transfer. 

H. Obtaining Additional Allowances-Transformation 


1. Carbon Tetrachloride Transformation 

   a. Summary of today's final rule. EPA decided to change the 
provisions for the tracking of carbon tetrachloride production 
and transformation from those proposed in the September 30, 
1991 notice in light of the comments received during the rulemaking 
proceeding. Under today's regulations, any company that produces 
carbon tetrachloride to be used as feedstock may do so without 
expending production and consumption allowances under certain 
conditions. In order for the company to avoid the prohibition 
against producing without allowances, however, the same amount 
of material it reports to EPA as "production for feedstock use" 
in a control period must be transformed by the end of the first 
quarter of the next control period. No "transformation allowances" 
or up-front commitments will be necessary for companies to produce 
carbon tetrachloride for feedstock. Instead, recordkeeping and 
reporting requirements needed to make this added flexibility 
for producers of carbon tetrachloride and feedstock users possibly 
have been promulgated.
   b. The proposal.  The Agency proposed a new system of "transformation" 
allowances for the production of carbon tetrachloride to be 
used as a feedstock. Under the system in effect in 1991, producers 
of carbon tetrachloride, like the producers of the other controlled 
substances, were not allowed to produce the chemical unless 
they had adequate production and consumption allowances to cover 
their production. After the chemical was transformed, the transforming 
company would be eligible to receive additional production and 
consumption allowances that could then be used to further produce 
or import additional carbon tetrachloride. Since a large percentage 
of the carbon tetrachloride produced is transformed, however, 
and two of the producing companies received no baseline consumption 
allowances, the 1991 system proved cumbersome and generated 
a large amount of paperwork while creating a stop-start production 
cycle.
   The proposed system would provide for the allocation of allowances 
before the actual transformation occurred, upon the producer's 
proving to the Agency's satisfaction that it had sales commitments 
with companies that promised to transform the carbon tetrachloride 
received. Producers could use these transformation allowances 
to produce carbon tetrachloride for feedstock use within the 
same control period. Transformers would report their activities 
quarterly. Any amount of carbon tetrachloride produced pursuant 
to transformation allowances and not transformed by year-end 
would be considered a violation of the regulations. 
   c. Proposed system versus 1991 system. The Agency requested 
comment on the proposed system as well as the 1991 system. Two 
commenters commended EPA for developing a new approach, but 
said that the proposed system would not solve some problems 
of the 1991 system and would exacerbate other problems. Another 
commenter remarked that the proposed system would be an improvement 
from the current system in that would solve the problems of 
stop-start production and of requiring producers to have allowances 
before producing carbon tetrachloride for exempt uses (in 2000). 
However, according to this company, the proposed scheme still 
had several flaws, which are discussed in more detail below. 
   In preparing the final regulations, the Agency has taken 
these comments into account, and altered the proposed transformation 
allowance system so that it will work more smoothly while maintaining 
an effective compliance monitoring mechanism. 
   d. Allowances for the production of feedstocks. Two companies 
asserted that since the manufacture of controlled substances 
used for feedstock is not deemed production under EPA's regulations, 
no allowances of any kind should be required to manufacture 
carbon tetrachloride for that purpose. One company commented 
that the word "production" found in the Protocol and the Act 
does not include the manufacture of controlled substances that 
are wholly used and consumed in the manufacture of other substances, 
and thus that EPA's proposed regulations unjustifiably and without 
authority would prohibit the sale of controlled substances for 
feedstock purposes except to the extent permitted by existing 
production and consumption allowances. One commenter also contended 
that EPA's interpretation of production denies the plain and 
ordinary meaning of the words contained in the statute, cannot 
be reconciled with other parts of the statute, and is neither 
required nor suggested by the Montreal Protocol. According to 
this company, since the effect of EPA's interpretation is to 
place a restriction on trade in these chemicals that is not 
authorized or required by the Statue or the Protocol, the Agency's 
position is unlawful. One comment indicated that it would be 
less disruptive of business to interpret the feedstock exclusion 
as covering the current year's production that has been or will 
be used as feedstock, requiring only a certification that the 
material will be transformed eventually.
   The Agency continues to believe that the Clean Air Act and 
Protocol definitions of production may be read to include any 
amount of feedstock chemical manufactured until it actually 
is transformed. The Clean Air Act, after all, excludes from 
production those controlled substances that are "used and entirely 
consumed" in the manufacture of other chemicals (emphasis added). 
At the same time, EPA concedes that the use of the past tense 
does not necessarily connote that the substance must have been 
used and consumed before it may be excluded from production. 
There are strong policy reasons for interpreting production 
as the Agency has in the past, to ensure that controlled substances 
are not produced in amounts greater than the Protocol and Clean 
Air Act allow and then not transformed. 
   In the case of controlled substances largely used as feedstocks, 
however, EPA's past interpretation can be unwieldy to implement. 
To address this concern, the Agency believes that it is permissible 
to interpret the definition of production in such a way that 
any chemical transformed at any point in time is never deemed 
"produced" within the context of the Protocol and Act. For reasons 
discussed in the following sections, EPA has determined that 
the allocation of transformation allowances for the production 
of carbon tetrachloride as feedstock (a system premised on the 
first interpretation) would not provide significant compliance 
monitoring advantages, while it would increase industry's and 
EPA's administrative burden. Consequently, this rulemaking provides 
that companies may produce carbon tetrachloride for feedstock 
use without expending allowances. 
   One commenter stated that within the same company, EPA excludes 
the transformed chemical from production, and there is no compelling 
reason for treating transformation by other companies differently. 
   The Agency's response is that prior to today's rule, all 
production, including feedstock production required the expenditure 
of consumption and production allowances and was not excluded 
directly from production. The commenter is most likely referring 
to the Agency's suggested format for the producer's quarterly 
report, which is simplified by netting out the amount transformed 
during that quarter from the amount produced during that quarter 
(the regulations promulgated today do not change this reporting 
system for internal transformation). It has been under past 
rulemakings and continues to be prohibited, however, to produce 
controlled substances for feedstock use without expending production 
and consumption allowances to cover that production, so in-house 
transformation is treated the same as second-party transformation. 
This rulemaking alters that system for carbon tetrachloride 
only. 
   One commenter also remarked that with few producers and transformers 
involved, enforcement would be just as easy for second party 
transformation as for producer transformation. Therefore, according 
to the commenter, the two systems should be treated in the same 
manner, as Congress intended. 
   To date, however, the Agency has identified at least 30 companies 
that transform carbon tetrachloride, in addition to six companies 
that produce it as well. The tracking of second party transformation 
thus is not as simple as tracking internal producer feedstock 
use. Therefore, the Agency is placing specific controls on producing 
and transforming companies to ensure compliance, which are outlined 
below. 
   e. Written contracts and commitments to transform. One company 
and an industry group commented that the proposed requirement 
for written fixed-amount contracts before transformation allowances 
could be granted would alter current business practices. In 
addition, they stated that sending each new purchase order to 
EPA would involve considerable paperwork without corresponding 
benefits. These commenters were also concerned that the production 
limits would still be exceeded if customers do not take the 
amount of carbon tetrachloride ordered or do not transform it 
by the year-end. 
   These commenters maintained that elements of EPA's proposed 
requirements do not take account of everyday business practices, 
as contracts are often only for estimated amounts. These three 
companies stated that the proposed system would prevent production 
without advance orders, which would make the production process 
slow to respond to immediate or emergency needs. 
   Responding to these concerns, the Agency has removed the 
requirement that a producer obtain up-front commitments from 
purchasers to transform carbon tetrachloride. Since EPA is not 
establishing a system based upon the provision of "up-front" 
allowances for carbon tetrachloride, EPA does not believe it 
is necessary to require producers to obtain the up-front commitments, 
the purpose of which (as explained in the NPRM) would be to 
determine the precise amount of carbon tetrachloride intended 
for transformation so that the appropriate amount of allowances 
could be granted. Instead, a producer must report every quarter 
its sales of carbon tetrachloride to each feedstock-user and 
provide the IRS certificates of the customers involved. The 
certificate shows the customer's intent to transform and substantiates 
the producer's claim that its feedstock production in excess 
of its production allowances will be transformed. Thus, industry 
will have more flexibility in responding to emergency orders, 
while EPA will still have adequate assurance that the carbon 
tetrachloride will be transformed. 
   f. Year-end problem. Several commenters expressed concern 
about the provision in the proposed rule that all of the carbon 
tetrachloride produced pursuant to transformation allowances 
for one control period must be transformed within the same control 
period or be counted as production. This provision stemmed from 
the Agency's interpretation of production as excluding the quantity 
manufactured and already used as a feedstock, but including 
any quantity manufactured and not yet used as a feedstock, even 
if that is its intended use. This means that at year-end, any 
inventory of the chemical remaining (even if intended for transformation) 
would be counted as production. The proposed system would be 
advantageous for compliance monitoring because it would assure 
that transformation occurs before additional allowances are 
granted. However, in light of these comments and its experience 
implementing carbon tetrachloride controls in 1991, EPA believes 
that the disruptive effects of this approach outweigh the compliance 
monitoring advantages in the case of carbon tetrachloride. The 
broader interpretation of production discussed earlier, allowing 
the amount of chemical transformed after the control period 
in which it was produced (not just within the same year) to 
be excluded from production, avoids the problem of year-end 
shutdown. In order to avoid plant shut-downs at year end, the 
Agency has decided that carbon tetrachloride transformed by 
the end of the first quarter in the control period following 
the control period in which it was produced may be excluded 
from the previous control period's production. Producers will 
be required to report production separately from production-
for-transformation, for which no allowances will be expended. 
The effect of these rules will be the same as dividing the carbon 
tetrachloride manufactured into "produced" and "transformed" 
quantities. 
   The final regulations allow for two types of carryovers. 
First, a three-month grace period for transformation after the 
end of the control period in which it was produced is established. 
Second, the producing company must show only that an amount 
equivalent to the amount it produced during the control period 
without the expenditure of production and consumption allowances 
for that control period was transformed. This means that production 
from one control period that is transformed at the beginning 
of the following control period could count towards the amount 
that must be transformed during the current period. For those 
companies that do not have baseline consumption allowances, 
this second type of carryover could provide them with a needed 
cushion. For all companies, the carryover period will provide 
flexibility needed to deal with the unpredictable instances 
of untransformed inventory. 
   One company maintained that by 1996 it will have the capability 
to transform carbon tetrachloride produced as by-product with 
a superior, environmentally sound technology. This company proposes 
that EPA allow coincidentally produced carbon tetrachloride 
to be stored in 1995 and 1996. The commenter noted that this 
would not violate the Clean Air Act and Montreal Protocol because 
production for feedstock is not production. 
   If the Agency were to allow indefinite storage of production-
for-feedstock, it would not be able to effectively monitor companies' 
compliance. Even if a company's production far exceeded its 
internal or its customers' transformation, it could always claim 
that the material was intended for future transformation. The 
Agency has determined that there must be some transformation 
cutoff date in order to ensure compliance with the Act and Protocol. 
   The Agency considered all of the carryover time periods suggested 
by commenters, ranging from 30 days to one year, and selected 
three months, or one quarter, as the most workable. Although 
some commenters indicated that any carryover from one year's 
production could be completely transformed by the end of the 
following January, a carryover period equal to one quarter reduces 
the reporting burden on companies by allowing them to provide 
information on the transformation in the first quarterly report. 
Six-month and one-year grace periods were rejected as being 
unnecessarily long, since previous-year compliance could not 
be determined until much later, in the case of the one-year 
grace period, up to 14 months after the end of the relevant 
control period. 
   Under the one-quarter carryover system, every transformer 
of carbon tetrachloride must report each quarter the amounts 
of carbon tetrachloride it has transformed. Each quarter, every 
producer will report its production intended for transformation 
and its non-feedstock production, and provide sales data and 
IRS certificates for each customer to which feedstock production 
was sold. After the end of the first quarter of the following 
control period, EPA will compute a mass balance. Compliance 
would be monitored for 1992 as follows: Amount Transformed in 
'92 + Amount Transformed in first quarter of '93 must be >= Amount 
Produced-for-Transformation in '92. 
   The next year, the mass balance will be calculated as follows: 
Amount Transformed in '93 - Amount Transformed in first quarter 
'93 that was attributed to '92 produced + Amount Transformed 
in first quarter of '94 must be >= the Amount Produced for Transformation 
in '93. 
   Under this system, companies may allot a certain amount of 
first quarter transformation to justify previous-year production 
for-feedstock uses. Any amount of first quarter transformation 
that exceeds what is needed to cover previous-year production 
will count towards transformation of feedstock production in 
the same year. All second, third and fourth quarter transformation 
will be attributed to production in the same year, along with 
as much of the next year's first quarter transformation as is 
necessary. Companies will be out of compliance if their first 
quarter transformation is not large enough to account for the 
previous year's remaining production-for-transformation. 
   An industry group inquired what would happen if a transformer 
starts a control period with inventory and ends the year with 
an untransformed inventory. For example, would a portion of 
any transformation that took place be allocated to the preexisting 
inventory and thus not be counted toward the current year's 
production? This commenter also asked what would happen if a 
transformation occurred early in the control period before carbon 
tetrachloride was actually purchased during that control period. 
   Under the feedstock tracking system, no transformation will 
be allotted to specific sources. A transformer beginning a year 
with inventory and ending the year with inventory does not present 
a problem because the amount transformed in that year could 
still be precisely calculated and matched against the producers' 
feedstock production. As a result, it does not matter if transformation 
of past-year purchases occurs, as this type of carryover is 
allowable if the total amount transformed in one control period 
plus the following carryover period minus the previous year's 
carryover is equal to or less than the amount produced in that 
year for feedstock. 
   One commenter maintained that transformation documentation 
should be based upon changes in bulk inventory, and not be tied 
to carbon tetrachloride in a specific shipment. This company 
stated that material received in bulk (e.g., by tank truck or 
rail car) would not be stored by discrete shipment, but would 
be combined in a single storage tank or battery of tanks. 
   The tracking system promulgated in this regulation allows 
for treatment of transformation reporting in a manner similar 
to the reporting of production, based on inventories, shipments 
and other pertinent information. The system thus avoids the 
problems of tracking the fate of individual shipments in a continuous 
manufacturing process. 
   g. Liability if production for feedstock exceeds transformation. 
Under the proposed rule, a carbon tetrachloride producer that 
produced no more than its transformation allowances permitted 
would still be liable if the carbon tetrachloride produced pursuant 
to the transformation allowances was not transformed in the 
same control period as it was produced. Several commenters objected 
that producers should not be held liable for the failure of 
purchasers who agreed to transform the production to do so. 
They maintained that as long as a carbon tetrachloride producer 
does not exceed its production allowances, the Agency should 
consider it in compliance. 
   In the final rule, the Agency has maintained the basic tenet 
of this aspect of its proposal-that producers remain ultimately 
liable for production not transformed. Under this rule, a company 
that produces without allowances a given quantity of carbon 
tetrachloride for feedstock use during a control period must 
ensure that at least that amount has been transformed by the 
end of the first quarter of the next control period. Any amount 
that is not transformed will be counted as production and production 
and consumption allowances will be deemed to have been expended. 
To the extent that a company's total production, including that 
not transformed, does not exceed its production and consumption 
allowances, it will be in compliance with the regulations. To 
the extent that its total production does exceed its allowances, 
it will be in violation. 
   The Agency has placed liability on the producer because the 
Act restricts production, not transformation. The specter of 
potential liability gives producers an incentive to ensure that 
their customers' claims that the carbon tetrachloride will be 
transformed are fulfilled. Since it is the producer who takes 
the first step in deciding whether or not to produce the chemical, 
and assures the Agency that this production will be transformed, 
it is clearly the producer's responsibility to see that the 
transformation is in fact carried out. Such liability is not 
only required by the statute, but also assures the protection 
of the environment. At the same time, producers may enter into 
contracts with transforming companies that contain clauses providing 
that the transforming companies will compensate the producer 
for any financial consequences of liability. 
   Several commenters maintained that EPA has the authority 
to hold customers liable because of its authority to limit production 
and transformation. One company contended that if the customer's 
action causes the carbon tetrachloride to be classified as production, 
then the customer becomes the de facto producer and as such 
is liable. Another commenter stated that if the Agency does 
not believe it has this authority, it could still place liability 
on transformers by granting transformation allowances only to 
companies that have signed a liability statement. 
   The Agency believes at this time that even if it has the 
legal authority to place liability on transformers, this would 
not be an effective way of ensuring compliance. As noted earlier, 
the number of transformers far exceeds the number of producers, 
and the monitoring of transformers thus presents greater difficulties 
than does the monitoring of producers. 
   One commenter remarked that for cases of failure to transform 
due to "Acts of God," there should be a provision allowing EPA 
to issue an enforceable consent order requiring the customer 
to transform or destroy the carbon tetrachloride within 180 
days. If a customer does not comply, EPA should fine the customer 
and arrange for the destruction at the customer's expense. 
   The Agency is providing a 90-day grace period in which a 
producer and transformer can arrange for transformation of untransformed 
inventory, whether it is due to "Acts of God" or any other cause. 
If the material is not transformed within the first quarter 
after year-end, the Agency will take enforcement action and 
collect fines from the producer of the chemical. Producers may 
pass fines and costs onto their customers as they see fit through 
contract provisions. 
   Another company commented that the proposed liability system 
ensures that transformation will take place. This company suggested 
that compliance will be effected through normal contract procedures 
since the EPA is clearly placing the burden on the producers. 
Therefore, producers will establish adequate contract and other 
control mechanisms to assure that the transformation occurs 
because they would be exposed to substantial noncompliance penalties. 
   By contrast another company responded to the Agency's suggestion 
in the NPRM that producers could use provisions for liquidated 
damages in contracts in order to avoid the costs of fines for 
transformers' failure to transform. They stated that liquidated 
damages provisions are inadequate for two reasons: (1) a customer 
would not sign the contract, and (2) damages might be uncollectible 
(i.e., in the case of bankruptcy, the security interest would 
not cover the fines, and other creditors would be harmed). A 
supplementary comment added that it is not commercially realistic 
to believe that a company would agree to manufacture carbon 
tetrachloride even though it would be held liable if the purchaser 
did not transform the chemical. This company commented that 
there is no reason why the onus of the prohibitions cannot focus 
on the buyer. 
   The Agency believes that if a customer were already certifying 
on IRS certificates that it would transform the material and 
it could not obtain carbon tetrachloride without signing a contract 
containing the provisions discussed above, then it would not 
be difficult to reach an agreement on liquidated damages in 
cases of failure to transform. The Agency also submits that 
the risk that a customer will declare bankruptcy or otherwise 
default, is a risk normally encountered and that if a producer 
perceives the risk to be too high, it would not be prudent to 
continue selling feedstock to that customer. Producing companies, 
in addition to making responsible decisions about to whom to 
sell the material, could make provisions for transforming the 
remaining material at another company's or one of their own 
plants. Thus, liquidated damages provisions should prove to 
be an effective method by which producers can ensure that their 
customers are financially accountable for failure to transform. 
   In sum, the Agency continues to believe its proposed liability 
system will be the most effective in ensuring compliance. Although 
the Agency is not requiring fixed contracts between producers 
and transformers, it is likely that producers will arrange for 
these types of agreements in order to guard against being penalized 
for untransformed material. 
   One commenter asked which producer would be penalized if 
a customer of two producers failed to transform within the control 
period. Under the scheme for carbon tetrachloride transformation 
promulgated in this rulemaking, transformers are required to 
report exactly how much carbon tetrachloride from each producer 
was transformed in each quarter. In cases where product from 
several producers is mixed in tanks, the governing assumption 
for whose carbon tetrachloride was transformed first would be 
"first in, first out" (FIFO), unless the transformer indicates 
that it plans to use an alternate method. This method is widely-
used in industry and has in the past been the basis of some 
companies' distinction between imported and domestically-produced 
material that is mixed before sale to transformers. Thus if 
a transformer received a shipment from one producer on the first 
of the month, and a shipment from another producer on the fifteenth 
of the month, the assumption would be that the first producer's 
material was transformed first. In this way, it could be determined 
to whom any untransformed material should be attributed. If 
a transformer does not wish to use the FIFO method, the company 
should submit a description of the alternate calculation method 
and a justification as to why FIFO is not satisfactory prior 
to submitting its first quarter report. The Agency will either 
approve or disapprove the request for the use of an alternate 
method, based on whether it can be reconciled with other transformers' 
calculation methods and FIFO. 
   Although today's rule makes the producer liable in cases 
where feedstock production exceeds transformed amounts during 
the five-quarter period, EPA will continue to monitor the effectiveness 
of relying solely on this compliance mechanism. If the Agency 
determines in the future that transforming companies are acting 
in bad faith by failing to transform, it will consider proposing 
regulations making transformers also liable pursuant to its 
statutory authority under section 615 of the Act. That section 
grants EPA broad authority to regulate practices or activities 
(such as failing to transform) that may reasonably be anticipated 
to contribute to ozone depletion and endanger public health 
or welfare. 
   h. Provision for the export of carbon tetrachloride. Two 
commenters remarked that elements of the proposed rule could 
eliminate their ability to produce for export because they cannot 
produce without consumption allowances. The commenters stated 
that two producers, including one of the commenters, have zero 
consumption allowances. That company commented that if the proposed 
system is adopted, it should be expanded to provide special 
export allowances under rules analogous to the rules for obtaining 
transformation allowances. 
   For exports, the Agency will use a process similar to that 
set up in 1991 for companies that needed up-front allowances 
in order to produce for transformation. Production of carbon 
tetrachloride for export does not present the same problems 
as production for transformation, as only a small percentage 
of the carbon tetrachloride manufactured in the U.S. is exported. 
Nevertheless, EPA recognizes the need for a mechanism for companies 
that did not receive baseline consumption allowances to enable 
them to produce and then export. These companies will be granted 
consumption allowances each year, equal to their production 
allowances for that year in order to produce for export. Companies 
must hold at least this number of consumption allowances at 
the end of the control period; they will receive consumption 
allowances equal to the number they expended to produce upon 
exporting their production. The Agency will allow companies 
to continue to process paperwork demonstrating that exports 
took place in the proper control period for up to 45 days after 
the end of the control period. 
   i. Recordkeeping and reporting for the carbon tetrachloride 
transformation system. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements 
have been changed from the proposal to be consistent with the 
carbon tetrachloride transformation system adopted here. Producers 
will be required to keep on-site records of: 
    The type of information required under the 1991 rules; 
and 
    Sales of material (invoices) to transformers. 
   Producers will also have to file quarterly reports registering: 
    The same type of information required under the 1991 rules, 
with "production" including only carbon tetrachloride manufactured 
and not intended for transformation; 
    The amount of "feedstock production" (carbon tetrachloride 
manufactured and intended for transformation); 
    The amount of feedstock production sold to each transforming 
company; and 
    IRS certificates for each transformer. 
   Transformers will be required to keep on-site records of: 
    The same type of information required under the 1991 rules 
for companies that request additional allowances for the use 
of a controlled substance as feedstock; 
    All purchases of carbon tetrachloride for feedstock; 
    Shipments received and the date and quantity of material 
received; 
    The source of all purchases and shipments; and 
    Quarter-start inventories of carbon tetrachloride. 
   Transformers will also have to file quarterly reports including: 
    A list of producers or importers from whom material was 
purchased; and 
    The amount of each producer's or importer's material that 
was transformed during that quarter. If material from several 
producers or importers was mixed, the transformer should use 
the first in, first out (FIFO) method for determining whose 
production was transformed, unless the Agency has approved an 
alternate method for that company. 

2. Transformation of Other Controlled Substances 

   One company commented that producers of methyl chloroform 
should also be allowed to exclude methyl chloroform that is 
transformed from production because in the future the use of 
methyl chloroform as a feedstock will increase. It presented 
the example of the production of HCFCs, which in 1995 may run 
into the same problems of allowance recycling delays and year-
end problems as are experienced currently for carbon tetrachloride. 
   EPA recognizes that as the phaseout progresses, it may be 
appropriate to expand the carbon tetrachloride transformation 
system to other chemicals and to exports. To date, however, 
the burden of allowance cycling for chemicals other than carbon 
tetrachloride has not been large enough to warrant expanding 
the transformation system, which provides less assurance that 
production for feedstock purposes is actually transformed. 
   Another company remarked that it and a number of other companies 
use controlled substances as manufacturing feedstocks, including 
for HFCs being developed as CFC substitutes, and that their 
need for such feedstocks is expected to increase in the future. 
According to this commenter, these companies would be placed 
at an unnecessary and unauthorized competitive disadvantage 
simply because they buy, instead of make, their feedstock chemicals. 
It asserted that the proposed rules would place a "choke-hold" 
on companies that must purchase controlled substance feedstocks 
and products made with them, giving an enormous advantage to 
manufacturers who produce their own feedstocks. The commenter 
maintained that this aspect of the proposal was unnecessary 
to protect the ozone layer, and was not authorized or required 
by the Clean Air Act. Moreover, this company argued that the 
differential treatment of second-party transformers significantly 
injure the U.S. and individual companies. It added that at the 
conclusion of the phaseout period it would no longer be possible 
to purchase controlled substance feedstocks (except for carbon 
tetrachloride) because there would be no more allowances. Moreover, 
this company maintained that in the interim, supplies would 
be scarce and prices would be unnecessarily high, without environmental 
benefit.
   The Agency has been monitoring allowance cycling for second-
party feedstock use of CFC feedstocks since July of 1989 and 
has yet to encounter any situation where companies had difficulties 
purchasing feedstock chemicals because of a "choke-hold" on 
allowances. Indeed, to date there has been a surplus of allowances 
at the end of each control period. Again, as the phaseout begins 
to take effect, this situation could change. The Agency prefers, 
however, to continue with the current system, which has been 
effective and has not presented problems for chemicals other 
than carbon tetrachloride, until it is determined that the carbon 
tetrachloride transformation system as promulgated in these 
regulations is effective and can reasonably ensure compliance 
with international production and consumption limits. At that 
time, the Agency will reconsider switching other controlled 
substances over to this control system. It is not the Agency's 
intention to disadvantage second-party transformers or to stifle 
the production of CFC substitutes. The commenter has presented 
no compelling evidence that this is currently taking place. 

3. Provision for the Import of Feedstock Carbon Tetrachloride 

   One company asserted that under the 1991 and proposed rules, 
importation of controlled substances for feedstock use can only 
be accomplished by expending consumption allowances, which will 
become unavailable in 2000. In the interim, this company maintained 
that transfers of allowable production between Parties (to permit 
greater domestic production of controlled substances for feedstock 
use) would be subject to an even greater offset than that applied 
in the case of domestic transfers. As certain feedstock materials 
needed for industry are in short supply (e.g., Halon 2402), 
the company inquired as to why American industry should be denied 
the opportunity to import these feedstocks. 
   This comment raises several issues. The first is how the 
import of feedstock substances should be treated. The Agency 
has provided that companies that wish to import carbon tetrachloride 
for feedstock use do not need to expend consumption allowances. 
In this way the import of carbon tetrachloride feedstocks is 
treated in the same manner as the production of the same. The 
offset for inter-Party trading of allowable production should 
not directly affect importation of controlled substances. Second, 
other controlled substances (such as Halon 2402) are not being 
considered for this type of treatment currently for the reasons 
discussed above. However, if at a later date the Agency were 
to establish a similar system for the other controlled substances 
as well, provision would also be made for imported feedstocks 
and of these substances. 

4. Transformation in Foreign Countries 

   One commenter maintained that after a Party transfers to 
the U.S. some amount of its allowable production, U.S. companies 
should be able to get production and consumption (or transformation) 
allowances for exporting the actual production that results 
when the exports are used as feedstocks in other countries upon 
submitting proof of export, transformation, and the importer's 
intended use. 
   EPA at this time cannot grant additional allowances for, 
or exempt from production limits, controlled substances that 
are manufactured for transformation abroad. The Parties to the 
Protocol have specifically addressed this issue and decided 
that the country in which the transformation takes place should 
be able to exclude from its limits the amount transformed. (See 
55 FR 24491 June 15, 1990.) Moreover, the Agency could not inspect 
transformation facilities in other countries, and, therefore, 
would not be able to enforce production limits adequately. 

I. Obtaining Additional Allowances-Exports 


I. Proof That Exports to Article 5 Countries are Not Reexported 

   The Clean Air Act allows producing companies to increase 
their production by up to ten percent of their baseline for 
the purpose of supplying the basic domestic needs of developing 
countries operating under Article 5 of the Montreal Protocol. 
The Agency's proposed method of tracking this production is 
to create potential production allowances equal to ten percent 
of each company's baseline that can be converted into actual 
production allowances if companies can prove that they have 
exported to Article 5 countries for the purposes of supplying 
their basic domestic needs. The Agency proposed to define "basic 
domestic needs" as the parties have thus far defined it. This 
definition presumes that controlled substances supplied to developing 
countries are used for basic domestic needs to the extent that 
they are not re-exported in bulk form. The Agency proposed that 
companies that wish to convert potential production allowances 
to production allowances submit to EPA documentation verifying 
that the export has occurred, as well as proof that the material 
will not be re-exported. As proposed, the documentation could 
be in the form of a contract providing for liquidated damages 
equal to the resale price of the chemical in the event the provision 
not to re-export is breached or could reflect other means to 
guarantee that the goods would not be re-exported. The Agency 
requested comments on other forms this proof could take. 
   One company asserted that re-export should be allowed if 
it can be demonstrated that re-export is to serve the basic 
domestic needs of another Article 5 country and also that one 
test of basic domestic needs could be the fact that there is 
greater economic value in re-exportation than in internal use. 
This company stated that to dictate otherwise would disrupt 
free market forces.
   The Agency responds that under the Protocol and section 614 
of the Act it does not have the authority to broaden the definition 
of basic domestic needs as suggested. The Parties clearly indicated 
in the discussions accompanying the London Amendments that basic 
domestic needs are not defined to include bulk re-export of 
any kind.
   The same commenter also suggested an alternative scheme for 
determining basic domestic needs under which EPA would determine 
the percentage of imports by each Article 5 country that typically 
is re-exported, and apply this factor to the U.S. exports in 
order to determine how many authorizations to convert should 
be given.
   EPA does not believe that basing authorizations to convert 
on past re-exportation statistics would guarantee that countries 
would not re-export controlled substances in the future. In 
addition, the Agency finds that determining the re-export rates 
of all 43 Article 5 countries would be administratively and 
financially burdensome. This is particularly apparent in light 
of the fact that the Protocol's Secretariat, which has already 
requested these data, has not been able to fully determine past 
export rates for the developing countries.
   The Agency is thus finalizing its proposed system, which 
allows companies to request only additional consumption allowances 
for exports to Parties that are not operating under Article 
5, but allows companies that export to Article 5 countries that 
have submitted appropriate documentation to receive both consumption 
allowances and authorizations to convert potential production 
allowances.

2. Exports to Non-Party Complying Nations 

   The same company commented that the Agency should allow exports 
to nations that are not Parties to the Protocol but are complying 
with its terms to be subtracted from consumption.
   Under the Protocol, the Agency may grant additional allowances 
for exports to non-Party complying nations if they have been 
identified as such by the Protocol Parties. To date, no non-
Party countries have been identified as complying. As countries 
identified, the Agency will begin granting additional allowances 
for exports to these countries.

J. Comments on the Impact of the Action 

   The Agency prepared a Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) for 
this regulation. It discusses the costs and benefits of the 
action, including benefits resulting from a decrease in ozone 
depletion. The RIA also contains an analysis of companies' average 
burden for fulfilling the recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
   Two commenters wrote that the RIA was flawed, particularly 
the sections linking ozone depletion to adverse human health 
effects. They suggested that the RIA be submitted to the Science 
Advisory Board for review and comment.
   In 1988, the Agency prepared an extensive risk assessment 
which served as the basis for its original regulations implementing 
the provisions of the Montreal Protocol. This document included 
detailed information about the adverse human health effects 
associated with excess UV-B radiation and ozone depletion. This 
information was reviewed by the Science Advisory Board and forms 
much of the basis for the current RIA.
   One company also stated that the industry burden estimated 
for the recordkeeping and reporting requirements was too small. 
The Agency believes, however, that although the estimate may 
be too low or too high for any one company, it accurately represents 
the average number of hours that would be spent by an affected 
industry entity to fulfill the requirements of this regulation.

V. Section-by-Section Description 


A. Authority Citation 

   The statutory sections implemented by the regulations are 
sections 603, 604, 605, 607 and 616 of the Clean Air Act as 
amended by the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 7671 
et seq.).

B. Section 82.1-Purpose and Scope 

   This section states that the purpose of the regulations is 
to implement the Montreal Protocol and sections 603, 604, 605, 
607 and 616 of the Clean Air Act.

C. Section 82.2-Effective Date 

   As proposed, January 1, 1992 is the effective date of these 
regulations. EPA has determined that it is necessary to maintain 
the January 1, 1992 effective date even though that will result 
in these regulations having a retroactive effective date because 
that effective date is necessary to avoid a period in which 
there are no regulations containing production and consumption 
restrictions in force. The temporary final rule promulgated 
by EPA was effective January 1, 1991 and established requirements 
only for the 1991 control period, which ended December 31, 1991. 
Thus, unless the regulations promulgated with this notice go 
into effect on January 1, 1992, there would have been a period 
running from December 31, 1991 until their effective date during 
which no regulations would have been effective. This would present 
a serious danger of being out of compliance with the Montreal 
Protocol, as no consumption limits would be in place during 
that period. Furthermore, it would mean that the Clean Air Act's 
production limits for 1992, which are self-effectuating, would 
have been in place without any implementing regulations, a situation 
that would create uncertainties with respect to producers' compliance 
with the production limits. (EPA determined that it was necessary 
to promulgate the temporary final rule concerning the 1991 control 
period with retroactive effect for similar reasons. See 56 FR 
9518 (March 6, 1991).) 
   EPA does not believe that in the weeks between January 1, 
and today, any company has produced or imported in excess of 
the limits established by today's rule. All affected companies 
were notified of the upcoming regulations, were able to review 
the proposal and in general were made aware of the production 
and consumption restrictions through the requirements of the 
temporary final rule in 1991. The Agency contacted these companies 
by mail and sent each one a copy of the temporary final regulations, 
the subsequent NPRM, and the direct final amendment to the temporary 
final rule, published on December 30, 1991. The changes that 
have been made here to the proposal do not include any requirements 
that are more stringent than those in the proposed rule. Accordingly, 
the retroactive nature of the regulations should not pose a 
problem for the regulated community. For the reasons given in 
the temporary final rule regarding its retroactive effective 
date, including the fact that it is highly unlikely that any 
company would have exceeded its allocation of allowances for 
the whole year in the short period since January, EPA does not 
believe that any member of the regulated community will be placed 
out of compliance with the regulations as a result of their 
retroactive effect. 
   A savings clause has been included in the regulations so 
that enforcement action can continue to be taken for violations 
of the requirements of the temporary final rule.

D. Section 82.3-Definitions 

   Several definitions are revised to conform to the definitions 
set forth in section 601 of the Clean Air Act. In particular, 
the terms "import" and "production" are changed to conform to 
their section 601 counterparts, and "control period" is redefined 
to include the calendar-year period specified in this section. 
Several other refinements of definitions are included as well.
   "Production" includes spills that may occur, as discussed 
in a previous rulemaking on spills promulgated by the Agency 
(55 FR 24490).
   The proposed regulatory language concerning the exemption 
from the definition of import for Maquiladora transactions has 
been modified to reflect more accurately the nature of Maquiladora 
arrangements. Consequently, instead of providing an exemption 
for imports "from Mexico by companies operating under the Maquiladora 
Accord," the new regulatory language provides an exemption for 
"[b]ringing controlled substances into the U.S. from Mexico 
where the controlled substance had been admitted into Mexico 
in-bond and was of U.S. origin." The new language better reflects 
the reality of the arrangement, which is that controlled substances 
crossing the border from the U.S. into Mexico "inbond" (i.e., 
under a bond insuring that the controlled substances will remain 
in Mexico only on a temporary basis) will be returned to the 
U.S. For the purposes of this regulation, therefore, the Agency 
will not require those persons importing controlled substances 
from a facility in Mexico operating under a Maquiladora arrangement 
to expend consumption allowances nor will the Agency grant allowances 
for an export to such a facility. The Agency believes that because 
allowances are expended when such controlled substances are 
initially produced in the United States, compliance with the 
Montreal Protocol will not be adversely affected by this exemption.
   Section 601(7) does not define "importer." For the purposes 
of these regulations the Agency defines an importer as the person 
listed as the importer of record on U.S. Customs Service forms 
for the import of a controlled substance into the United States.
   The Amendments also do not define "export" or "exporter." 
EPA is retaining its current regulatory definitions of these 
terms.
   EPA is also retaining its definition of "controlled substance." 
This definition, which is based on its Protocol counterpart 
and includes elaboration adopted by the Parties, distinguishes 
between bulk chemicals, which are regulated, and products, which 
are not regulated under section 604. "Controlled substance" 
means any substance listed in appendix A to this part, whether 
existing alone or in a mixture, but excluding any such substance 
or mixture that is in a manufactured product other than a container 
used for the transportation or storage of the substance or mixture. 
Any amount of a listed substance that is not part of a use system 
containing the substance is a controlled substance. If a listed 
substance or mixture must first be transferred from a bulk container 
to another container, vessel, or piece of equipment in order 
to realize its intended use, the listed substance or mixture 
is a controlled substance. 
   All of the above revisions to the definitions are being adopted 
as proposed, with the exception of the definition of importer. 
Several alterations have been made to the proposed definitions 
of calculated level, production and transformation for clarification 
purposes. Since the transformation allowance system is not being 
adopted, the definition of transformation allowances has been 
dropped. Definitions of CUBP and MACT have been added. The CUBP 
definition incorporates the commercial test and the dependent-
variable test discussed above, and the MACT definition includes 
a requirement for 99.99 percent destruction efficiency. 

E. Section 82.4-Prohibitions 

   In this section, EPA prohibits persons from producing or 
importing controlled substances in excess of the production 
allowances and consumption allowances they hold, with the exception 
of the production of carbon tetrachloride for feedstock and 
CUBP carbon tetrachloride and methyl chloroform. In addition, 
this section prohibits persons from producing or importing more 
than 150 percent of their baseline levels of Group I chemicals 
between July 1, 1991, and December 31, 1992, except to the extent 
they have obtained additional allowances by exporting to Parties 
in general or Article 5 countries in particular, by transforming 
Group I substances, or by obtaining allowable production from 
another Protocol Party during the same period. This added restriction 
on Group I chemicals ensures that the United States continues 
to meet its obligations under the Montreal Protocol. Companies 
are also prohibited from importing controlled substances in 
Groups I and II from non-Party countries. 
   Exemptions from the production and consumption restrictions 
have been added here as discussed above. These include the exemption 
for the production of carbon tetrachloride for feedstock that 
is transformed by the end of the first quarter of the next control 
period and the exemption for immediately contained and destroyed 
CUBP production of controlled substances in Groups IV and V. 
   Companies that wish to qualify for the exemption for immediately 
contained and destroyed CUBP production of carbon tetrachloride 
and methyl chloroform must submit the following information 
to EPA within 45 days after the beginning of the control period 
(except in 1992, when the information should be submitted 45 
days after the publication of this notice):
-The name and address of the plant at which the CUBP production 
  takes place, and the name and telephone number of a contact 
  person; 
-A description of the process of which the chemical is a by-
  product; 
-The name of the primary chemical produced in the process; 
-A description of the destruction technology to be used, including 
  documentation showing that it has a destruction efficiency 
  of at least 99.99 percent; 
-An estimate of the annual production and subsequent destruction 
  of the controlled substance; 
-Documentation describing the handling of the material and showing 
  that all procedures are consistent with regulations under 
  RCRA or other applicable rules; and 
-A statement of whether the process and destruction method was 
  being used in 1989 and whether the amounts manufactured were 
  included as "production" in reports submitted for use in EPA's 
  baseline calculation. 
   This information is similar to that appearing in the proposed 
rule, with the addition of that relating to the 99.99 percent 
requirement, other regulations, and how the process was treated 
in baseline-year reports. In addition, these companies are required 
to keep on-site dated records of the quantity of the CUBP carbon 
tetrachloride and methyl chloroform produced at the facility, 
as well as dated records of the quantity of the CUBP controlled 
substance destroyed at the facility or shipped from there to 
an off-site destruction facility. 
   This section also specifies the equation that the Agency 
will use to calculate each company's compliance in the production 
of carbon tetrachloride for feedstock. 

F. Sections 82.5 and 82.6-Apportionment of Baseline Production 
and Consumption Allowances 

   In these sections, EPA is promulgating each company's baseline 
production and consumption allowances for each chemical within 
the five groups of class I substances. The Agency is reserving 
the apportionment of allowances for class II substances as proposed. 
   EPA's method for baseline calculation remains unaltered from 
the proposal. As noted in the NPRM, to establish baseline allowances 
for the groups of newly regulated chemicals, EPA obtained information 
on and documentation of companies' 1989 production, import, 
and export of these chemicals through a request issued under 
section 114 of the Act. Because section 601(11) excludes from 
the definition of production the amount of a chemical used and 
entirely consumed (except for trace quantities) in the production 
of another chemical, the Agency also requested companies that 
had consumed or transformed the regulated chemicals as feedstock 
in the manufacture of another chemical to supply information 
documenting the transformation. Based on this information, the 
Agency calculated companies' baseline production and consumption 
allowances for the groups of newly regulated chemicals specified 
by section 602 (i.e., Group III-the newly regulated CFCs; Group 
IV-carbon tetrachloride; and Group V-methyl chloroform). 
   Baseline production allowances were calculated by excluding 
from the amount of the newly regulated chemicals produced in 
1989 the amount of those chemicals transformed in the same year. 
The Agency attempted to trace every discrete amount of a chemical 
that had been transformed to the producer of that discrete amount 
of chemical and exclude that amount from the producer's baseline 
allowances. In some cases, however, EPA was unable to track 
the chemical transformed to its original producer. To account 
for these unassignable amounts of transformed chemicals, EPA 
applied a correction factor to distribute these amounts among 
producers of the relevant chemicals based on their respective 
market shares. 
   The Agency believes that this is a fair way of allocating 
transformation amounts to the producers of these chemicals, 
with the larger producers receiving the larger share of the 
documented, but unassignable, transformation amounts. This approach 
is also consistent with that taken by the Agency in a previous 
rulemaking apportioning baseline allowances. In that rulemaking, 
EPA decided that documented, but unassignable, exports of the 
regulated CFCs and halons should be allocated to producers based 
on their relative market share. As a result, larger producers 
had their consumption allowances decreased more than smaller 
producers. 
   EPA determined each company's consumption allowances by performing 
the consumption equation for each company based on that company's 
documented production, imports, and exports. For the chemicals 
for which the Agency is establishing baseline allowances in 
this rule, EPA was able, in most cases, to track all exports 
back to the exported chemicals' producers. However, it was also 
necessary to allocate unassignable exports to producers in a 
manner similar to the method used to allocate unassignable transformation 
amounts to producers. As discussed above, consumption amounts 
that were negative for two companies were also distributed across 
companies receiving consumption allowances through use of a 
correction factor. In addition, since the Protocol as construed 
by the Parties and EPA's rule do not count imports transformed 
in the manufacture of other substances against applicable consumption 
limits, the Agency has not counted baseline-year imports transformed 
in the manufacture of other substances in calculating baseline 
consumption allowances. (See 55 FR 24491; June 15, 1990.) 
   In developing chemical-specific allowances for Groups I and 
II controlled substances for today's rulemaking, the Agency 
reviewed the original data submitted in compliance with the 
section 114 information request promulgated in 1987. In today's 
rule, producers are receiving chemical-specific production allowances 
based on what they had reported as production in 1986, excluding 
any production that was used and consumed as a feedstock for 
another chemical. Producers and importers of these chemicals 
are receiving chemical-specific consumption allowances based 
on their reported production, imports, and exports of these 
chemicals. The Agency is further adjusting individual consumption 
allowances within these two groups to take account of the unattributed 
exports. Chemical-specific, unattributed exports were apportioned 
to each consumption allowance holder based on the percentage 
share of the market that producer and/or importer held for that 
chemical. 
   Since allowances are no longer allotted on a group basis, 
they are promulgated here in units of unweighted kilograms, 
instead of by calculated level, as was used in the past. Although 
the ODP weights of the controlled substances are still relevant 
for allowance transfers, actual production and consumption limits 
now apply separately to each chemical and thus the concept of 
calculated level is no longer necessary for the purpose of allotting 
baseline allowances. 
   Although the baseline calculation method has remained unchanged 
from that proposed in the September 30, 1991 notice, actual 
numbers for Groups III, IV and V have changed slightly. These 
differences are due to the Agency's allowing companies to continue 
to submit baseline information through the comment period as 
well as refining the definitions of transformation and destruction. 
The changes result in baselines that more accurately reflect 
actual production and consumption in 1989. 

G. Section 82.7-Granting and Phased Reduction of Allowances 
for Class I Controlled Substances 

   This section allocates percentages of baseline allowances 
for Group I, Group II, Group III, Group IV, and Group V controlled 
substances for all control periods until the year 2000 and beyond 
according to the schedule presented in section 604. Baseline 
production and consumption allowances are chemical-specific. 
This section is being promulgated as proposed. 

H. Section 82.8-Grant and Phased Reduction of Allowances for 
Class II Controlled Substances 

   This section is reserved in this rulemaking. 

I. Section 82.9-Availability of Additional Production Allowances

   This section provides that persons with baseline production 
allowances for any controlled substance be granted potential 
production allowances equal to ten percent of their baseline 
allowances for that chemical for each year from 1992 through 
1999, and 15 percent for each year from 2000 through 2010 (with 
adjustments for methyl chloroform). Potential production allowances 
may be converted to production allowances with proof of export 
to a developing country that is operating under Article 5 of 
the Protocol, as specified under 82.11. This paragraph is being 
adopted unchanged from the proposal. 
   A company can also increase or decrease its production allowances 
by trading with another Party to the Protocol under the provisions 
of section 616. The Agency has adopted proposed regulations 
under 82.9(b)(2) as final. 
   For trades to another Party, the submission must include 
the identity and address of the person seeking approval of the 
trade, the identity of the Party, the names and telephone numbers 
of contact persons for the person and for the Party, and the 
chemical and level of production being transferred. The trading 
company's production limit will be reduced according to the 
formula as proposed, except that if more than one company trades 
production to a Party in the same control period, the total 
offset amount will be recalculated and divided between the companies 
based on the ratio of the amount of their trades. Thus, the 
first company to trade will see an increase in its balance of 
allowances if a second company trades within the same control 
period. 
   For trades to the United States, similar information is required 
with the addition that the transferring Party must submit a 
document from that nation's embassy in the United States stating 
that it has revised its production limits according to the conditions 
stated in section 616. 
   EPA will review trades from and to other Montreal Protocol 
Parties on a one control period, one time trade basis, as well 
as permanent trades between Parties for the remaining control 
periods. 
   When a Party to the Protocol trades production for the remaining 
control periods to a company within the United States, the Agency 
will modify the U.S. company's production allowances to reflect 
the additional allowances received in trade. For the remaining 
control periods, the Agency will reduce that companies allowances 
by the required Clean Air Act schedules, adjusting the traded 
allowances by a ratio that accounts for the percentage reduction 
required by that control period relative to the percentage reduction 
required in the control period in which the trade was received. 
This is required to ensure that companies reduce their production 
according to the percentage reductions required under the Clean 
Air Act, and that total production is phased out by the turn 
of the century. 
   In addition, should a U.S. company trade all of its production 
for the remaining control periods to a Party of the Protocol, 
that company's zero production for the remaining years will 
not enter into any calculation of the past three year average 
if additional trades by other companies occur at a later date. 
EPA believes that other companies which may eventually trade 
should not be disadvantaged by the permanent trade of all trades 
of another company. 
   However, the Agency will include in the three year average 
calculation, any production of controlled substances by a company 
that had traded on a one time basis some production rights during 
that control period.
   Finally, companies may receive additional production allowances 
for transforming Group I, II, III or V chemicals. To obtain 
additional production allowances for the transformation of these 
chemicals, a person must submit a request for production allowances 
that includes the identity and address of the person; the name 
and quantity of the controlled substance used and entirely consumed 
in the manufacture of another chemical; a copy of the invoice 
or receipt documenting the sale from the producer of the chemical 
to the person; and the name, quantity, and verification of the 
commercial use of the resulting chemical. The Agency uses this 
information to confirm that the chemical was indeed transformed, 
and that production allowances were expended in the production 
of the chemical. If the transformed chemical was imported, the 
company cannot receive additional production allowances, since 
only domestic consumption allowances were expended in bringing 
the chemical into the country.

J. Section 82.10 Availability of Additional Consumption Allowances

   Companies can receive additional consumption allowances for 
exports to Parties. Companies requesting additional consumption 
allowances must submit the following information: The identities 
and the addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the export; 
the Exporter's Identification Number (EIN) listed on the United 
States Census Export Declaration form; the names and telephone 
numbers of contact persons for the exporter and the recipient; 
the quantity and type of controlled substance; the source of 
the controlled substance and the date purchased; the date on 
which and the port from which the controlled substance was exported 
from the United States or its territories; the country to which 
the controlled substances were exported; the bill of lading 
and the invoice indicating the net quantity of controlled substance 
and date shipped and documenting the sale of the controlled 
substance to the purchaser; and the harmonized tariff number 
(or "commodity code") of the goods exported. 
   This information will be used by EPA to verify that the export 
actually occurred and to prepare end-of-year reports required 
by the Montreal Protocol. The Agency will review the information 
expeditiously and issue a notice granting additional consumption 
allowances to the exporter if all the submitted information 
indicates that the export actually occurred. 
   In this rule, the Agency has added a provision for producing 
companies that do not have baseline consumption allowances for 
Group IV that wish to produce for export. A limited number of 
consumption allowances will be granted to the producing company 
up front, equal to the level of their baseline production allowances 
for that year. At the end of the control period, the producer 
must have obtained at least that same quantity of consumption 
allowances and hold them unexpended in order to be in compliance. 
   Companies can also receive additional consumption allowances 
for the transformation of a controlled substance (other than 
carbon tetrachloride). Any application for additional production 
allowances for the transformation of a controlled substance 
will be treated as an application for additional consumption 
allowances. This section is being adopted as proposed. 

K. Section 82.11 Exports to Article 5 Parties 

   Companies may obtain authorization to convert potential production 
allowances to production allowances by exporting controlled 
substances to developing countries that are operating under 
Article 5 of the Montreal Protocol. 
   The proof required by EPA in order to grant authorization 
to convert potential production allowances for exports to Article 
5 countries is the same as that required for a request for additional 
consumption allowances for exports to Parties. However, the 
exporter must also adequately demonstrate that the export has 
not been and will not be re-exported in bulk form by submitting 
a copy of a contract specifying that the material cannot be 
re-exported and requiring payment of damages if it is re-exported.
   This information will be used by EPA to verify that the export 
did indeed occur and to prepare end-of-year reports required 
by the Montreal Protocol. The Agency will review the information 
expeditiously and issue a notice granting authorization to convert 
potential production allowances to the exporter if all the submitted 
information indicates that the export did indeed occur and the 
material will not be re-exported. This section is also being 
adopted without alteration from the proposal. 

L. Section 82.12 Exchanges 

   Companies must submit requests for inter-pollutant and inter-
company allowance trades to EPA that include the identities 
and addresses of the transferor and the transferee; the names 
and telephone numbers of contact persons for the transferor 
and for the transferee; the type and amount of allowances being 
transferred; the amount of the one-percent offset applied to 
the unweighted amount traded that will be deducted from the 
transferor's allowance balance (except for trades of potential 
production allowances, authorizations to convert, or trades 
from transformers to producers or importers for the purpose 
of allowance reimbursement); and the amount of unexpended allowances 
or authorizations for that chemical that the transferor holds 
as of the date the claim is submitted to EPA. The Agency uses 
this information to verify that sufficient allowances exist 
for the trade. The Agency will issue a "No Objection Notice" 
within three working days if EPA does not object to the trade. 
If EPA does deny the trade, the transferee will have ten working 
days to appeal the decision. 
   This section has been slightly altered from the proposal. 
Specifically, language has been added stating that the offset 
does not apply for trades of production and consumption allowances 
from transformers to producers for purposes of allowance reimbursement. 
Trades of potential production allowances and authorizations 
to convert are also not subject to the offset requirement. In 
addition, language has been added clarifying that in the case 
of an inter-pollutant/inter-company trade, the offset only applies 
once. 

M. Section 82.13 Recordkeeping and Reporting 


1. Producers 

   a. Daily recordkeeping. Producers are required to maintain 
dated records of the quantity of the class I controlled substances 
produced at each facility, including the dated records of the 
quantity of any carbon tetrachloride produced for feedstock 
use, the quantity of controlled substances used as feedstocks 
in the manufacture of controlled substances and in the manufacture 
of non-controlled substances, and the quantity of any virgin, 
used or recycled controlled substances introduced into the production 
process of new controlled substances. They are also required 
to keep records of the feedstock materials consumed in producing 
the regulated chemicals at each facility and records documenting 
the sale of carbon tetrachloride for feedstock use (invoices, 
bills of lading, etc.). EPA requires records of feedstocks consumed 
so that the Agency can approximate the quantity of controlled 
substances produced by monitoring the materials consumed. Records 
of shipments of controlled substances from each facility must 
be maintained as well. EPA believes that this requirement will 
aid the Agency in verifying production. Finally, EPA requires 
that all spills or releases of 100 pounds or more be recorded, 
including the date of occurrence and the estimated quantity 
of the controlled substance released. These amounts should be 
included in production totals for reporting purposes. 
   EPA believes that current methods of recordkeeping will generally 
be sufficient to satisfy the recordkeeping requirements. EPA 
is aware that some producers may not make daily production estimates 
over weekends, and that production may not be measured directly, 
but may be determined from records of consumption, shipments, 
and inventories. For the purpose of verifying that these accounting 
procedures are acceptable, EPA is requiring that producers who 
have not previously done so submit within 120 days of publication 
of this final rule a report detailing how production is measured 
on a regular basis and how its methods are to be used to determine 
quarterly production figures in kilograms. 
   b. Production reports. EPA also requires that producers report 
on a quarterly basis, within 45 days after the end of the quarter. 
The Clean Air Act specifies that controls be on a calendar-year 
basis and thus EPA cannot allow compliance to be determined 
based on a company's fiscal period to the extent that it is 
different from the specified control period. However, if the 
first and last quarterly reports are adjusted to coincide with 
the beginning and end of the control period, the interim quarterly 
reports may be based on a fiscal quarter, provided EPA determines 
that a company's fiscal quarters follow the calendar quarters 
closely enough so as not to complicate its review of records. 
   Since one purpose of these reports is to provide EPA with 
information to verify production, EPA requires that producers 
submit the following information: summaries of quarterly production 
of the controlled substances (for carbon tetrachloride separating 
out production and manufacture-for-feedstock), specifying the 
quantity used and consumed as feedstock for controlled and non-
controlled substances; summaries of total quarterly and control 
period to date production levels each class I controlled substance; 
and the producer's total expended and unexpended consumption 
allowances, expended and unexpended production allowances, potential 
production allowances, and authorization to convert potential 
production allowances to production allowances, as of the end 
of the quarter. In addition, firms must report the total shipments 
of each controlled substance from that plant in the quarter. 
For companies that produce carbon tetrachloride for feedstock 
use, the proposal has been altered to add a required reporting 
of amounts sold to each transforming company during the quarter, 
and the provision of IRS certificates showing that the purchaser 
intends to transform the material. 

2. Importers 

   a. Daily recordkeeping. EPA is requiring the same import 
records as were contained in its previous regulations (56 FR 
9518) and in the proposal, with the addition of requirements 
for importers of carbon tetrachloride to be used as feedstock. 
The rule requires that importers maintain daily records of the 
following: The quantity of virgin, used, and recycled controlled 
substances brought into the United States; the date and port 
of entry into the United States or its territories; the country 
from which the imported controlled substances were exported; 
and the port of exit. In addition, importers must record the 
commodity code and the importer number for each shipment and 
keep the following documentation to verify imports: The bill 
of lading and the invoice and United States Customs Entry Summary 
Form. This information will allow EPA to verify shipments against 
United States Census reports during compliance checks and investigations 
of potential violations. Retention of the bill of lading and 
the invoice is necessary to provide EPA with an independent 
check on quantities imported, separate from Census and Customs 
data. 
   Companies importing carbon tetrachloride for feedstock use 
must keep records documenting the sale of the material to transforming 
companies. 
   b. Import reports. EPA requires that importers, like producers, 
file quarterly reports within 45 days of the end of the quarter. 
Importers may receive shipments at several ports throughout 
the country and thus may need 45 days to collect and summarize 
information and report accurate quantities. Also since several 
importers are also producers, it is helpful for the reporting 
period for importers to be consistent with the 45-day reporting 
period for producers. Again, EPA cannot allow compliance to 
be determined based on a company's fiscal period to the extent 
that it is different from the specified control period. However, 
if the first and last quarterly reports are adjusted to coincide 
with the beginning and end of the control period, the interim 
quarterly reports may be based on a fiscal quarter, provided 
EPA determines that a company's fiscal quarters follow the calendar 
quarters closely enough so as not to complicate record review. 
   These reports must include the following: The quantity of 
controlled substances that are imported in that quarter, the 
level of each controlled substance imported for the quarter 
and the total for the control period, and the total quantity 
of expended and unexpended consumption allowances the importer 
holds at the end of the quarter. The importer must also provide 
a summary of the import activities that shall include the quantity 
of each import as recorded on the Entry Summary Form to the 
United States Customs Service, the date and port of entry into 
the United States or its territories, the country from which 
the imported controlled substances were imported, the port of 
exit, and the name and address from whom additional information 
can be obtained. In addition, the commodity code and the importer 
number must be provided to assist with comparison and verification 
of importer records with United States Census and Customs records. 
Finally, the Agency requires that importers, when reporting 
controlled substances contained in mixtures, state what percentage 
of the mixture consists of controlled substances. These requirements 
have been adopted as proposed. 
   The Agency, in implementing the previous rules, determined 
that exporters must report the residual amounts (heels) of controlled 
substances that remain in isotanks or canisters or other shipping 
containers that are returned to the United States as imports. 
Companies are entitled to receive, and do so when they request 
them, additional allowances for the full weight of their export. 
Therefore, as a matter of consistency the Agency must require 
companies to report the controlled substances that return in 
the form of heels as imports. These companies must have and 
expend consumption allowances in the import process. Thus, exporters 
who intend to return heels must possess allowances before the 
heels are returned and report heel imports quarterly. 
   Reporting requirements have been added for companies that 
import carbon tetrachloride for feedstock use. These companies 
must report the amount of carbon tetrachloride imported for 
feedstock use and the amounts sold during that quarter to transforming 
companies. IRS certificates for those companies must accompany 
the quarterly report.

3. Exporters

   EPA is requiring the same reporting and recordkeeping requirements 
for exporters as were contained in its previous regulations 
(56 FR 9518) and the proposal. Exports for which additional 
consumption allowances were not requested or for which the request 
was denied must be reported within 45 days after the end of 
the year. EPA requires this information to comply with the Montreal 
Protocol only and, therefore, does not believe that more frequent 
reporting is necessary. Since consumption allowances are not 
being granted for these exports, periodic monitoring and independent 
verification is not needed. Consequently, these exporters need 
only report at the end of the control period. 
   For these exports EPA requires that the following be submitted: 
Name and address of the exporter and recipient of the exports, 
the exporter's Employer Identification Number (EIN), the type 
and quantity of controlled substances exported and the percentage 
that is recycled or used, and the date and port from which the 
exports were shipped. The commodity code is also required because 
it allows EPA to verify these shipments. A final reporting requirement 
includes the date and source from whom the exported controlled 
substances were purchased. 

4. Transformers 

   Companies that use any of the class I controlled substances 
in Groups I, II, III or V as feedstock and request additional 
allowances under 82.9 and 82.10 of EPA's regulations and companies 
that transform carbon tetrachloride must maintain the following 
records on site: Dated records of the quantity of controlled 
substance used and entirely consumed in the manufacture of another 
chemical; copies of the invoices or receipts documenting the 
sale from the producer or importer of the controlled substance 
to the person; dated records of the names, commercial use, and 
quantities of the resulting chemicals; and dated records of 
shipments to the purchasers of the resulting chemicals. These 
requirements are being adopted as proposed. 
   Recordkeeping requirements have been added for carbon tetrachloride 
transformers, including dated records of all shipments received 
and records of amounts of carbon tetrachloride in inventory 
at the beginning of each quarter. 
   Companies that transform carbon tetrachloride must report 
their activities quarterly, within 45 days after the end of 
the quarter. Such companies must provide the amount of carbon 
tetrachloride purchased from each producer and transformed during 
that quarter. The report should include the name and address 
of the producing and transforming company and the name and telephone 
number of the contact person at each company. Also provided 
should be the address of the facility at which the transformation 
took place, the name of the chemical produced as a result of 
the transformation, and the verification of its commercial use. 
This requirement is being altered slightly from the proposal 
to match the requirements under 82.9 for requests for additional 
allowances for the use of controlled substances as feedstock. 

5. Class II Controlled Substances

   For class II controlled substances, companies who produced, 
imported, or exported a class II substance must file an annual 
report within 45 days after the end of the calendar year, stating 
the amount of each substance that such person produced, imported, 
and exported during that year. Each such report shall be signed 
and attested by a responsible officer of the company. This requirement 
is being adopted as proposed. 

VI. Impact of Action 

   The Agency has prepared a Regulatory Impact Analysis that 
evaluates the costs and benefits of phasing out class I chemicals. 
   The costs and benefits of the phaseout were estimated by 
comparing the percentage of ozone depletion that would occur 
in the future if the phaseout were implemented to various scenarios, 
including a projected baseline that would occur in the absence 
of any regulation, the ozone depletion that would occur with 
the original 1987 Montreal Protocol limits, and the ozone depletion 
that would occur under the limits outlined in the London Amendments 
to the Montreal Protocol and in the amended Clean Air Act. 
   The RIA used two projections to estimate ozone depletion. 
The primary method is a parameterization based on a one dimensional 
model, which has been used in previous EPA analyses of the stratosphere, 
and is taken from Connell (1986). This model translates emissions 
of the class I and II chemicals into chlorine loadings, and 
transforms these loadings into estimates of depletion relative 
to ozone concentrations in 1970. This first projection does 
not take into account any depletion that may have occurred prior 
to 1988. 
   To account for the observed depletion prior to 1988, the 
Agency developed a second projection using an adjusted version 
of the one dimensional parameterized model. In this model, an 
adjustment factor was applied so that historical emission data, 
when entered into the model, predicted the observed estimated 
level of ozone depletion prior to 1988. For this adjustment, 
the Agency assumed that the average ozone trend over the latitudes 
30 N-64 N was representative of the global change in column 
ozone, and that the trend is due to decreases in stratospheric 
chlorine. The model was further adjusted to account for the 
seasonal level of UV-B expected when ozone depletion occurs. 
The RIA provides results based on both model projections. 
   The major health benefits of these regulations are attributable 
to avoided effects of exposure to ultraviolet radiation. The 
major environmental effects are based on studies that found 
decreased crop and fish harvests associated with increased ultraviolet 
radiation. Decreased stratospheric ozone is also expected to 
lead to increased tropospheric ozone, which can also reduce 
crop yields, and lead to rapid deterioration of polymers. There 
are uncertainties related to the links between increased use 
of the substances and ozone depletion, as well as between decreases 
in stratospheric ozone and increases in UV-B radiation and their 
effects on human health and the environment.
   A phaseout significantly reduces the rate of depletion of 
stratospheric ozone. Indeed, the atmospheric models indicate 
that ozone concentrations will return to historic levels in 
the middle of the next century under certain scenarios. However, 
it should be noted that these models have been shown to underpredict 
the level of ozone depletion in the past, and the two projections 
do not account for the most recent observation that ozone concentrations 
have decreased by three to five percent over the last decade 
in the northern mid-latitudes. 
   The health effects due to ozone depletion are generated from 
estimated dose-response relationships. These dose-response relationships 
have large uncertainties related to the type of population affected, 
and variability in the studies providing the data. A second 
human health benefit of ozone depleting compound regulation 
is reduced incidence of cataracts. The estimated increase in 
cataracts is roughly 0.5 percent for each percent increase in 
UV-B. 
   The quantifiable environmental benefits in the United States 
due to CFC, halon, methyl chloroform, and carbon tetrachloride 
regulation, although small when compared to the value of the 
avoided cancer benefits, are also substantial. Increases in 
ultra-violet radiation have been shown to affect crop yield 
and crop quality adversely. Again, the Agency emphasizes that 
these benefit estimates are based on limited data containing 
many assumptions. However, they do provide an order of magnitude 
estimate of the likely benefits to preserving the ozone layer.
   Social costs of reducing CFC, halon, and methyl chloroform 
use through regulation were estimated by examining the costs 
of alternative technologies and materials for producing CFC, 
halon, and methyl chloroform based products. Social costs are 
the additional amount of resources required to produce an equivalent 
amount of goods and services for consumers. Regulation also 
transfers income from consumers of class I based products to 
other sectors of society. The economic model calculated the 
costs that society would incur to meet the production targets 
of the Clean Air Act, based on available or future control technologies. 
The economic model generally selected those control options 
that were either already being used by industry, or were the 
least costly options available, thus minimizing the cost to 
society. Once selected, the model totalled the social costs 
and transfer payments needed each year to meet the reduction 
targets of the Clean Air Act. 
   The costs of these regulations are expected to depend on 
the speed at which specific user industries and the economy 
as a whole adopts techniques to reduce the use of ozone depleting 
compounds, and on the potential for these technologies to achieve 
the reductions required. Transfer payments generated by ozone 
depleting substance regulation are significant, particularly 
in the initial years of regulation. Cost estimates are also 
subject to considerable uncertainty because they are sensitive 
to technical innovation, and future energy and chemical costs. 
   To estimate costs and benefits distributed over time, the 
Agency applied several discount rates to various phaseout scenarios. 
The Agency applied discount rates of two, four, and ten percent 
to gauge their impact on social costs and benefits. The two 
and four percent discount rates represent possible estimates 
of the "consumption rate of interest," where two percent has 
been used and accepted by the Agency in previous analyses on 
the impact of regulations restricting the production and consumption 
of ozone-depleting substances. The ten percent discount rate 
represents the "real pre-tax rate of return on private investments" 
and is required by the Office of Management and Budget's 1972 
circular A-94. The RIA discusses further the choice of the various 
discount rates and the circumstances under which each could 
most appropriately be used. The Agency believes that the two 
and ten percent discount rates may currently represent the outerbound 
estimates of the appropriate rate.
   The following table summarizes the net incremental benefits 
in billions of 1985 dollars (between the London Amendments and 
the Clean Air Act Phaseout Scenarios) of the regulation at the 
three different discount rates using the two different modelling 
projections. The London Amendments provide the following net 
incremental benefits over the 1997 Montreal Protocol: For the 
unadjusted model-$226 billion to $887.6 billion at a two percent 
discount rate, $35.8 billion to $145.3 billion at a four percent 
discount rate, and $-0.6 to $2.2 billion at ten percent; for 
the adjusted model-$352.7 billion to $1,362 billion at two percent, 
$57.3 billion to $222.4 billion at four percent, and $0.1 billion 
to $4.2 billion at ten percent. 


                                                                              
                                                                              

                                                  Discount       Net        
                     Model                        rate (%)   incremental    
                                                               benefits     

                                                                            
Unadjusted ....................................          2  1.0-6.5         
                                                         4  (0.2)-1.3       
                                                        10  (0.3)-(0.2)     
Adjusted (assuming a weighted average ozone              2  1.6-8.5         
 depletion of approximately one percent).                                   
                                                         4  0.0-2.1         
                                                        10  (0.3)-(0.1)     


   The Agency is also developing a third projection of ozone 
depletion that includes the most recent ozone depletion calculations 
determined by NASA, using an initial depletion amount of 3.38 
percent in 1989. The value of benefits to people born before 
2075 exceed the control costs through 2075 using discount rates 
of two, four, and ten percent when the most current ozone depletion 
measurements are accounted for. Using the two percent discount 
rate, the net incremental benefits using the re-adjusted model 
are expected to range between 13.0 and 50.2 billions of 1985 
dollars, with the results at the four percent rate ranging between 
3.6 and 4.1 billion and the calculation at ten percent showing 
net incremental benefits from 0.1 to 1.2 billions of 1985 dollars. 

VII. Additional Information 


A. Executive Order 12291 

   Executive Order (E.O.) 12291 requires preparation of a Regulatory 
Impact Analysis for major rules, defined by the order as those 
likely to result in: 
   (1) An annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more; 
   (2) A major increase in costs or prices for consumers, individual 
industries, Federal, State or local government agencies, or 
geographic industries; or 
   (3) Significant adverse effects on competition, employment, 
investment, productivity, innovation, or on the ability of United 
States-based industry to compete with foreign based enterprises 
in domestic or export markets. 
   EPA has determined that these regulations meet the criteria 
of a major rule. The Agency estimates that annual industry costs 
will exceed $100 million. A regulatory impact analysis has been 
prepared to analyze these costs and has been submitted to the 
Office of Management and Budget for review. 

B. Regulatory Flexibility Act 

   The Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., requires 
that federal agencies examine the impacts of regulations on 
small entities. Under 5 U.S.C. 601(a), whenever an agency is 
required to publish a general notice of rulemaking, it must 
prepare and make available a regulatory flexibility analysis 
(RFA). 
   The Agency originally published an RFA to accompany the August 
12, 1988 final rule (53 FR 30566) that placed the initial limits 
on the production and consumption of CFCs and halons. The RFA 
concluded that of the industries affected by regulation of CFCs 
and halons only some segments of the foam blowing industry were 
potentially at risk. In contrast to almost all the other users 
of these chemicals, CFCs are a large percentage of the final 
costs for the foam industry. 
   Different sectors of the foam industry are likely to be affected 
differently. Indeed, the August 12 rule discussed how several 
foam sectors were already moving away from CFCs. Foam food packagers 
have shifted out of CFCs to HCFC-22 or other alternatives. Similarly, 
the industry sector that makes flexible molded foam has moved 
out of CFCs with minimal disruption, while the extruded polystyrene 
board-stock industry intends to eliminate the use of CFC-12 
in the near future. 
   In updating this analysis to examine the other foam sectors, 
as well as those sectors using carbon tetrachloride and methyl 
chloroform, the Agency did re-examine the effect of increased 
price on several foam segments-polyurethane-sprayed and molded 
foam and foam insulation and board-stock. The insulating foam 
industry is investigating the use of HCFC-141b or a blend of 
HCFC-141b and HCFC-123. To the extent that these substitutes 
are determined to be technically and economically viable, the 
longer term impact on these firms will be minimized. The industry 
is actively pursuing these options and is currently waiting 
for the results of toxicity studies required for its use of 
these chemicals. 
   Based on the analysis contained in the RFA, EPA does not 
believe that any foam industry segment will be substantially 
harmed over the long term, and that recent development of alternative 
blowing agents for use in these sectors indicate the competitiveness 
of this industry. Sectors using carbon tetrachloride and methyl 
chloroform are unaffected. In the applications where they are 
most commonly used, the value of the end product is not significantly 
related to the price of the chemicals, since they are used only 
in small volumes. Thus the final costs of industry will not 
be significantly affected by these regulations. 
   Under section 605 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 
605, I certify that the regulation promulgated in this document 
will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of 
small entities. 

C. Paperwork Reduction Act 

   As required by 35.04 of the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 
U.D.C. 3501 et seq., EPA submitted an information collection 
request to the Office of Management and Budget for review. The 
recordkeeping and reporting requirements contained in this rulemaking 
were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control 
number 2060-0170. 
   Industry reporting burden for this collection is estimated 
in the following table. It includes the time needed to comply 
with EPA's reporting and compliance monitoring requirements 
as well as that used for the completion of voluntary reports 
and requests under this rule. 


                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                               

                                                        Respondent burden per occurrence                                      
                                                                                                                              
    Respondent     
    activities       Frequency   Producer    Frequency   Importer    Frequency   Exporter    Frequency   Transformer   
                                   hours                   hours                   hours                    hours      

                                                                                                                       
Conduct transfer             1           8           1           8           4           8           0             0   
 transactions.                                                                                                         
Obtain additional            0           0           0           0           4          21           0             0   
 allowances                                                                                                            
 through exports.                                                                                                      
Convert potential            0           0           0           0           1          42           0             0   
 allowances                                                                                                            
 through exports.                                                                                                      
Convert potential            1          82           0           0           0           0           0             0   
 allowances by                                                                                                         
 receiving                                                                                                             
 allowances from                                                                                                       
 Party countries.                                                                                                      
Receive additional           0           0           0           0           0           0          12            42   
 allowances for                                                                                                        
 transforming.                                                                                                         
Comply with                  4          88           4          60           4          60           4            32   
 reporting and                                                                                                         
 compliance                                                                                                            
 monitoring                                                                                                            
 requirements.                                                                                                         


   Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other 
aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions 
for reducing the burden, to Chief, Information Policy Branch, 
PM-223y, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., 
Washington, DC 20460; and to Paperwork Reduction Project, Office 
of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management 
and Budget, Washington, DC 20503. 

List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 82 

   Administrative practice and procedure, Air pollution, Chemicals, 
Chlorofluorocarbons, Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, Exports, 
Imports, Recordkeeping and reporting requirements, Stratospheric 
ozone layer. 

   Dated: July 17, 1992. 

William K. Reilly, 
Administrator. 
   Title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, part 82, is amended 
as follows: 

PART 82-PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE 

   1. The authority citation for part 82 continues to read as 
follows:

   Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7414, 7601, 7671-7671q.

   2. Sections 82.14 and 82.20 are removed. Sections 82.1 through 
82.13 are designated as subpart A and revised. Appendices A 
through C and E to part 82 are redesignated as appendices A 
through C and E to subpart A and revised, and appendix D to 
part 82 which is currently reserved is redesignated as appendix 
D to subpart A and reserved. The revised text is set forth below. 

Subpart A-Production and Consumption Controls 
Sec. 
82.1 Purpose and scope. 
82.2 Effective date. 
82.3 Definitions. 
82.4 Prohibitions. 
82.5 Apportionment of baseline production allowances. 
82.6 Apportionment of baseline consumption allowances. 
82.7 Grant and phased reduction of baseline production and consumption 
    allowances for class I controlled substances. 
82.8 Grant and freeze of baseline production and consumption 
    allowances for class II controlled substances. [Reserved]
82.9 Availability of production allowances in addition to baseline 
    production allowances. 
82.10 Availability of consumption allowances in addition to 
    baseline consumption allowances. 
82.11 Exports to Article 5 Parties. 
82.12 Transfers. 
82.13 Record-keeping and reporting requirements.

Appendix A to subpart A-Class I Controlled Substances 

Appendix B to subpart A-Class II Controlled Substances 

Appendix C to subpart A-Parties to the Montreal Protocol 

Appendix D to subpart A-Nations Complying with, but not Party 
to, the Protocol [Reserved] 

Appendix E to subpart A-Article 5 Parties

Subpart A-Production and Consumption Controls 

82.1   Purpose and scope. 

   (a) The purpose of these regulations is to implement the 
Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer 
and sections 603, 604, 605, 607 and 616 of the Clean Air Act 
as amended by the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, Public Law 
101-549. The Protocol and section 604 impose limits on the production 
and consumption (defined as production plus imports minus exports) 
of certain ozone depleting chemicals, according to specified 
schedules. The Protocol also requires each nation that becomes 
a Party to the agreement to impose certain restrictions on trade 
in ozone depleting substances with non-Parties. 
   (b) This rule applies to any individual, corporate, or governmental 
entity that produces, transforms, imports, or exports controlled 
substances.

82.2   Effective date. 

   (a) The regulations under this subpart take effect January 
1, 1992.
   (b) The regulations under this part that were effective prior 
to January 1, 1992 are saved for purposes of enforcing the provisions 
that were applicable prior to January 1, 1992.

82.3   Definitions. 

   As used in this subpart, the term: 
   (a) Administrator means the Administrator of the Environmental 
Protection Agency or his authorized representative. 
   (b) Baseline consumption allowances means the consumption 
allowances apportioned under 82.6 of this subpart. 
   (c) Baseline production allowances means the production allowances 
apportioned under 82.5 of this subpart. 
   (d) Calculated level means the weighted amount of a controlled 
substance determined by multiplying the amount (in kilograms) 
of the controlled substance by that substance's ozone depletion 
weight listed in appendix A or appendix B to this subpart. 
   (e) Class I refers to the controlled substances listed in 
appendix A to this subpart. 
   (f) Class II refers to the controlled substances listed in 
appendix B to this subpart. 
   (g) Consumption allowances means the privileges granted by 
this subpart to produce and import class I controlled substances; 
however, consumption allowances may be used to produce class 
I controlled substances only in conjunction with production 
allowances. A person's consumption allowances are the total 
of the allowances he obtains under 82.7 of this subpart (baseline 
allowances for class I controlled substances) and 82.10 of 
this subpart (additional consumption allowances), as may be 
modified under 82.12 of this subpart (transfer of allowances). 
   (h) Control period means the period from January 1, 1992 
through December 31, 1992, and each twelve-month period from 
January 1 through December 31, thereafter. 
   (i) Controlled substance means any substance listed in appendix 
A or appendix B to this subpart, whether existing alone or in 
a mixture, but excluding any such substance or mixture that 
is in a manufactured product other than a container used for 
the transportation or storage of the substance or mixture. Any 
amount of a listed substance which is not part of a use system 
containing the substance is a controlled substance. If a listed 
substance or mixture must first be transferred from a bulk container 
to another container, vessel, or piece of equipment in order 
to realize its intended use, the listed substance or mixture 
is a controlled substance. Controlled substances are divided 
into two classes, class I and class II. Class I substances are 
further divided into five groups, Group I, Group II, Group III, 
Group IV and Group V, as set forth in appendix A to this subpart. 
   (j) CUBP means a coincidental unavoidable byproduct of a 
manufacturing process that is immediately contained and destroyed 
by the producer using MACT. A substance is CUBP if- 
   (1) The quantity of the substance generated by the manufacturing 
process cannot be varied independently of the intended product, 
varies proportionately with the production of the intended product, 
and ceases when the intended product's production is stopped; 
and 
   (2) It is not manufactured for commercial purposes, including 
for sale or use in place of substances that otherwise would 
be purchased. 
   (k) Export means the transport of virgin, used, or recycled 
controlled substances from inside the United States or its territories 
to persons outside the United States or its territories, excluding 
United States military bases and ships for on-board use. 
   (l) Exporter means the person who contracts to sell controlled 
substances for export or transfers controlled substances to 
his affiliate in another country. 
   (m) Facility means any process equipment (e.g., reactor, 
distillation column) used to convert raw materials or feedstock 
chemicals into controlled substances or consume controlled substances 
in the production of other chemicals. 
   (n) Import means to land on, bring into, or introduce into, 
or attempt to land on, bring into, or introduce into any place 
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States whether or 
not such landing, bringing, or introduction constitutes an importation 
within the meaning of the customs laws of the United States, 
with the following exemptions: 
   (1) Off-loading used or excess controlled substances from 
a ship during servicing and 
   (2) Bringing controlled substances into the U.S. from Mexico 
where the controlled substance had been admitted into Mexico 
in bond and was of U.S. origin. 
   (o) Importer means the importer of record listed on U.S. 
Customs Service forms for imported controlled substances. 
   (p) MACT means, with respect to the destruction of CUBP, 
maximum available control technology having a destruction efficiency 
of no less than 99.99%. 
   (q) Montreal Protocol means the Montreal Protocol on Substances 
that Deplete the Ozone Layer, a protocol to the Vienna Convention 
for the Protection of the Ozone Layer, including adjustments 
adopted by the Parties thereto and amendments that have entered 
into force. 
   (r) Nations complying with, but not joining, the Protocol 
means any nation listed in appendix D to this subpart. 
   (s) Party means any nation that is a Party to the Montreal 
Protocol and listed in appendix C to this subpart. 
   (t) Person means any individual or legal entity, including 
an individual, corporation, partnership, association, State, 
municipality, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe; 
any agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States; 
and any officer, agent, or employee thereof. 
   (u) Plant means one or more facilities at the same location 
owned by or under common control of the same person. 
   (v) Potential production allowances means the production 
allowances obtained under 82.9(a) of this subpart. 
   (w) Production means the manufacture of a substance from 
any raw material or feedstock chemical, but does not include: 
   (1) The manufacture of a substance that is used and entirely 
consumed (except for trace quantities) in the manufacture of 
other chemicals or 
   (2) The reuse or recycling of a substance. 
   Production includes spilled or vented controlled substances 
equal to or in excess of one hundred pounds per event. 
   (x) Production allowances means the privileges granted by 
this subpart to produce controlled substances; however, production 
allowances may be used to produce controlled substances only 
in conjunction with consumption allowances. A person's production 
allowances are the total of the allowances he obtains under 
82.7 of this subpart (baseline allowances for class I controlled 
substances) and 82.9(a), (b), and (c) of this subpart (additional 
production allowances) as may be modified under 82.12 of this 
subpart (transfer of allowances). 
   (y) Transform means to use and entirely consume (except for 
trace quantities) a controlled substance in the manufacture 
of other chemicals for commercial purposes. 
   (z) Unexpended consumption allowances means consumption allowances 
that have not been used. At any time in any control period a 
person's unexpended consumption allowances are the total of 
the level of consumption allowances he has authorization under 
this subpart to hold at that time for that control period, minus 
the level of controlled substances that the person has produced 
or imported in that control period until that time. 
   (aa) Unexpended production allowances means production allowances 
that have not been used. At any time in any control period a 
person's unexpended production allowances are the total of the 
level of production allowances he has authorization under this 
subpart to hold at that time for that control period, minus 
the level of controlled substances that the person has produced 
in that control period until that time.

82.4   Prohibitions. 

   (a) No person may produce, at any time in any control period, 
any class I controlled substance (except for 
   (1) Group lV controlled substances that are transformed by 
the end of the first quarter of the following control period, 
as determined in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, 
or 
   (2) Group IV and V controlled substances for which the person 
has obtained an exemption in accordance with paragraph (e) of 
this section) in excess of the amount of unexpended production 
allowances for that substance held by that person under the 
authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. 
In no event may any person produce in the period from July 1, 
1991 through December 31, 1992 a total calculated level of Group 
I controlled substances in excess of 150 percent of that person's 
baseline production allowances for Group I substances plus any 
additional production allowances for Group I controlled substances 
that the person obtained under 82.9 and 82.12 of this subpart 
during this same period. Every kilogram of excess production 
constitutes a separate violation of this regulation. 
   (b) No person may produce or import, at any time in any control 
period, any class I controlled substance (except for 
   (1) Group IV controlled substances that are transformed by 
the end of the first quarter of the following control period 
as determined in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, 
or 
   (2) Group IV and Group V controlled substances for which 
the person has obtained an exemption in accordance with paragraph 
(e) of this section) in excess of the amount of unexpended consumption 
allowances held by that person under the authority of this subpart 
at that time for that control period. In no event may any person 
produce or import in the period from July 1, 1991 through December 
31, 1992 a calculated level of Group I controlled substances 
in excess of 150 percent of that person's baseline consumption 
allowances plus any consumption allowances for Group I controlled 
substances that the person obtained under 82.10 and 82.12 
of this subpart during this same period. Every kilogram of excess 
production or importation constitutes a separate violation of 
this regulation. 
   (c) A person may not use production allowances to produce 
a quantity of class I controlled substances (with the exceptions 
set forth in paragraph (a) of this section) unless he or she 
holds under the authority of this subpart at the same time consumption 
allowances sufficient to cover that quantity of class I controlled 
substances nor may a person use consumption allowances to produce 
a quantity of class I controlled substances (with the same exceptions 
noted above) unless the person holds under authority of this 
subpart at the same time production allowances sufficient to 
cover that quantity of class I controlled substances. However, 
only consumption allowances are required to import class I controlled 
substances (except for Group IV controlled substances that are 
transformed by the end of the first quarter of the control period 
following that in which the substance was imported). 
   (d) No person may import any quantity of Group I or Group 
II controlled substances from any nation not listed in Appendix 
C to this subpart (Parties to the Montreal Protocol) unless 
that nation is listed in appendix D to this subpart (Nations 
Complying with, But Not Party to, the Protocol). Every kilogram 
of controlled substances imported in contravention of this regulation 
constitutes a separate violation of this regulation. 
   (e) Any person may obtain, in accordance with the provisions 
of this paragraph, an exemption from the prohibitions set forth 
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for CUBP Group IV 
and Group V controlled substances. 
   (1) A person must submit within 45 days after the beginning 
of each control period (or by September 14, 1992, for the 1992 
control period) during which the person will produce CUBP Group 
IV and Group V a petition that includes the following:
   (i) The identity and address of the person; 
   (ii) The name and telephone number of a contact person; 
   (iii) A description of the process of which the class I controlled 
substance is a by-product and the name of the CUBP produced; 
   (iv) The name of the primary chemical produced in the process; 
   (v) A description of the destruction technology to be used, 
including documentation showing that it has a destruction efficiency 
of at least 99.99 percent; 
   (vi) An estimate of the annual amount of production and subsequent 
destruction of the CUBP controlled substance; 
   (vii) A description of the handling of the material and a 
showing that all procedures are consistent with regulations 
under RCRA or other applicable rules; and 
   (viii) A statement of whether the process and destruction 
methods were being used in the baseline year and whether the 
amounts manufactured were included as "production" in reports 
submitted for use in the calculation of baseline allowances. 
   (2) The Administrator will review the information and documentation 
submitted under paragraph (e)(1) of this section and will issue 
the person a notice granting the exemption for that amount or 
portion of Group IV or Group V substance that the Administrator 
determines is CUBP, provided the request satisfactorily demonstrates 
that the person's destruction technology is MACT and that the 
CUBP is handled in a manner consistent with other applicable 
law and regulations. 
   (3) If the Administrator determines that the request does 
not establish that the substances are CUBP or that the destruction 
technology is MACT and the CUBP is not handled in a manner consistent 
with other applicable law and regulations, the Administrator 
will issue a note disallowing the request for the exemption. 
   (4) The Administrator will adjust the person's baseline allowances 
if necessary based on the information submitted under paragraph 
(e)(1) of this section. 
   (f) Upon receipt of each person's first quarterly report 
as required under 82.13 of this subpart, the Administrator 
will calculate the following quantities for each person that 
produced Group IV controlled substances for feedstock in the 
previous control period: 
   (1) The amount of the person's production transformed in 
the previous control period;
   (2) The amount of the person's production transformed in 
the first quarter of the previous control period attributable 
to the person's production in the control period previous to 
that; 
   (3) The amount of the person's production transformed in 
the first quarter of the current control period; and 
   (4) The amount that the person produced for transformation 
in the previous year. 
   If the Administrator finds that the quantity calculated in 
paragraph (f)(4) of this section is greater than the sum of 
the quantities calculated in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(3) of 
this section minus the quantity calculated in paragraph (f)(2) 
of this section, each kilogram by which the quantity calculated 
in paragraph (f)(4) of this section is greater, constitutes 
a separate violation.

82.5   Apportionment of baseline production allowances. 

   Persons who produced controlled substances in Group I or 
Group II in 1986 are apportioned baseline production allowances 
as set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Persons 
who produced controlled substances in Group III, IV, or V in 
1989 are apportioned baseline production allowances as set forth 
in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section. Persons who 
produced class II controlled substances are apportioned baseline 
production allowances as set forth in paragraph (f) of this 
section.
   (a) For Group I controlled substances:


                                                                              
                                                                              

  Controlled                       Person                     Allowances    
   substance                                                     (kg)       

                                                                            
CFC-11 .......  Allied-Signal, Inc ........................    23,082,358   
                E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co ...............    33,830,000   
                Elf Atochem, N.A ..........................    21,821,500   
                Laroche Chemicals .........................    12,856,364   
CFC-12 .......  Allied-Signal, Inc ........................    35,699,776   
                E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co ...............    64,849,000   
                Elf Atochem, N.A ..........................    31,089,807   
                Laroche Chemicals .........................    15,330,909   
CFC-113 ......  Allied-Signal, lnc ........................    21,788,896   
                E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co ...............    58,553,000   
CFC-114 ......  Allied-Signal, Inc ........................     1,488,569   
                E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co ...............     4,194,000   
CFC-115 ......  E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Co ...............     4,176,000   


   (b) For Group II controlled substances:


                                                                              
                                                                              

  Controlled                       Person                     Allowances    
   substance                                                     (kg)       

                                                                            
Halon-1211 ...  Great Lakes Chemical Corp .................       826,487   
                ICI Americas, Inc .........................     2,135,484   
Halon-1301 ...  E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co ...............     3,220,000   
                Great Lakes Chemical Corp .................     1,766,850   
Halon-2402 ...  ...........................................                 


   (c) For Group III controlled substances:


                                                                              
                                                                              

  Controlled                       Person                     Allowances    
   substance                                                     (kg)       

                                                                            
CFC-13 .......  Allied-Signal, Inc ........................       127,125   
                E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co ...............       187,831   
                Elf Atochem, N.A ..........................         3,992   
                Great Lakes Chemical Corp .................        56,381   
                Laroche Chemicals .........................        29,025   
CFC-111 ......  ...........................................                 
CFC-112 ......  ...........................................                 
CFC-211 ......  E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Co ...............            11   
CFC-212 ......  E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Co ...............            11   
CFC-213 ......  E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Co ...............            11   
CFC-214 ......  E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co ...............            11   
CFC-215 ......  E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co ...............           511   
                Halocarbon Products Corp ..................         1,270   
CFC-216 ......  E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co ...............       170,574   
CFC-217 ......  E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Co ...............           511   


   (d) For Group IV controlled substances:


                                                                              
                                                                              

  Controlled                       Person                     Allowances    
   substance                                                     (kg)       

                                                                            
CCl4 .........  Akzo Chemicals, Inc .......................     7,873,615   
                Degussa Corporation .......................        26,546   
                Dow Chemical Company, USA .................    18,987,747   
                E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co ...............         9,099   
                Hanlin Chemicals-WV, Inc ..................       219,616   
                ICI Americas, Inc .........................       853,714   
                Occidental Chemical Corp ..................     1,059,358   
                Vulcan Chemicals ..........................    21,931,987   


   (e) For Group V controlled substances:


                                                                              
                                                                              

  Controlled                       Person                     Allowances    
   substance                                                     (kg)       

                                                                            
Methyl          Dow Chemical Company, USA .................   168,030,117   
 Chloroform.                                                                
                E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co ...............             2   
                PPG Industries, Inc .......................    57,450,719   
                Vulcan Chemicals ..........................    89,689,064   


   (f) For class II controlled substances: 
   (Reserved)

82.6   Apportionment of baseline consumption allowances. 

   Persons who produced, imported, or produced and imported 
controlled substances in Group I or Group II in 1986 are apportioned 
chemical-specific baseline consumption allowances as set forth 
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Persons who produced, 
imported, or produced and imported controlled substances in 
Group III, Group IV, or Group V in 1989 are apportioned chemical-
specific baseline consumption allowances as set forth in paragraphs 
(c), (d) and (e) of this section. Persons who produced, imported, 
or produced and imported class II chemicals are apportioned 
chemical-specific baseline consumption allowances set forth 
in paragraph (f) of this section. 
   (a) For Group I controlled substances: 


                                                                              
                                                                              

  Controlled                       Person                     Allowances    
   substance                                                     (kg)       

                                                                            
CFC-11 .......  Allied-Signal, Inc ........................    22,683,833   
                E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co ...............    32,054,283   
                Elf Atochem, N.A ..........................    21,740,194   
                Hoechst Celanese Corporation ..............       185,396   
                ICI Americas, Inc .........................     1,673,436   
                Kali-Chemie Corporation ...................        82,500   
                Laroche Chemicals .........................    12,695,726   
                National Refrigerants, Inc ................       693,707   
                Refricentro, Inc ..........................       160,697   
                Sumitomo Corporation of America ...........         5,800   
CFC-12 .......  Allied-Signal, Inc ........................    35,236,397   
                E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Co ...............    61,098,726   
                Elf Atochem, N.A ..........................    32,403,869   
                Hoechst Celanese Corporation ..............       138,865   
                ICI Americas, Inc .........................     1,264,980   
                Kali-Chemie Corporation ...................       355,440   
                Laroche Chemicals .........................    15,281,553   
                National Refrigerants, Inc ................     2,375,384   
                Refricentro, Inc ..........................       242,526   
CFC-1113 .....  Allied-Signal, Inc ........................    18,241,928   
                E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Co ...............    49,602,858   
                Elf Atochem, N.A ..........................       244,908   
                Holchem ...................................       265,199   
                ICI Americas, Inc .........................     2,399,700   
                Refricentro, Inc ..........................        37,385   
                Sumitomo Corporation of America ...........       280,163   
CFC-114 ......  Allied-Signal, lnc ........................     1,429,582   
                E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Co ...............     3,686,103   
                Elf Atochem, N.A ..........................        22,880   
                ICI Americas, Inc .........................        32,930   
CFC-115 ......  E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co ...............     2,764,109   
                Elf Atochem, N.A ..........................       633,007   
                Hoechst Celanese Corporation ..............         8,893   
                ICI Americas, Inc .........................     2,366,351   
                Laroche Chemicals .........................       135,520   
                Refricentro, lnc ..........................        27,337   


   (b) For Group II controlled substances: 


                                                                              
                                                                              

    Controlled                       Person                    Allowances   
    substance                                                     (kg)      

                                                                            
Halon-1211 ......  Elf Atochem, N.A ........................      411,292   
                   Great Lakes Chemical Corp ...............      772,775   
                   ICI Americas, Inc .......................    2,116,641   
                   Kali-Chemie Corporation .................      330,000   
Halon-1301 ......  E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co .............    2,772,917   
                   Elf Atochem, N.A ........................       89,255   
                   Great Lakes Chemical Corp. ..............    1,744,132   
                   Kali-Chemie Corporation .................       54,380   
Halon-2402 ......  Ausimont ................................       34,400   
                   Great Lakes Chemical Corp ...............       15,900   


   (c) For Group III controlled substances:


                                                                              
                                                                              

    Controlled                       Person                    Allowances   
    substance                                                     (kg)      

                                                                            
CFC-13 ..........  Allied-Signal, Inc ......................      127,124   
                   E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co .............      158,508   
                   Elf Atochem, N.A ........................        3,992   
                   Great Lakes Chemical Corp ...............       56,239   
                   ICI Americas, Inc .......................        5,855   
                   Laroche Chemicals .......................       29,025   
                   National Refrigerants, Inc ..............       16,665   
CFC-111                                                                     
CFC-112 .........  Sumitomo Corporation of America .........        5,912   
                   TG (USA) Corporation ....................        9,253   
CFC-211 .........  E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co .............           11   
CFC-212 .........  E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co .............           11   
CFC-213 .........  E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co .............           11   
CFC-214 .........  E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co .............           11   
CFC-215 .........  E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co .............          511   
                   Halocarbon Products Corp ................        1,270   
CFC-216 .........  E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co .............      170,574   
CFC-217 .........  E.I. Dupont de Nemours & Co .............          511   


   (d) For Group IV controlled substances: 


                                                                              
                                                                              

    Controlled                       Person                    Allowances   
    substance                                                     (kg)      

                                                                            
CCl4 ............  Crescent Chemical Co ....................           56   
                   Degussa Corporation .....................       12,466   
                   Dow Chemical Company, USA ...............    8,170,561   
                   E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co .............       26,537   
                   Elf Atochem, N.A ........................           41   
                   Hanlin Chemicals-WV, Inc ................      103,133   
                   Hoechst Celanese Corporation ............            3   
                   ICC Chemical Corp .......................    1,173,723   
                   ICI Americas, Inc .......................      855,466   
                   Occidental Chemical Corp ................      497,478   
                   Sumitomo Corporation of America .........            9   


   (e) For Group V controlled substances:


                                                                              
                                                                              

    Controlled                       Person                    Allowances   
    substance                                                     (kg)      

                                                                            
Methyl Chloroform  3V Chemical Corp ........................        3,528   
                   Actex, Inc ..............................       50,171   
                   Atochem North America ...................       74,355   
                   Dow Chemical Company, USA ...............  125,200,200   
                   E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co .............            2   
                   IBM .....................................        2,026   
                   ICI Americas, Inc .......................   14,179,850   
                   Laidlaw .................................      420,207   
                   PPG Industries ..........................   45,254,115   
                   Sumitomo ................................        1,954   
                   TG (USA) Corporation ....................        7,073   
                   Unitor Ships Service, Inc ...............       14,746   
                   Vulcan Chemicals ........................   70,765,072   


   (f) For class II controlled substances: (Reserved)

82.7  Grant and phased reduction of baseline production and 
consumption allowances for class I controlled substances. 

   For each control period specified in the following table, 
each person is granted the specified percentage of the baseline 
production and consumption allowances apportioned to him under 
82.5 and 82.6 of this subpart.


                                                                              
                                                                              

                                                             Other class   
               Date                Group IV (%  Group V (%)       I        
                                        )                     substances   
                                                                  %        

                                                                           
1992 ............................           90          100           80   
1993 ............................           80           90           75   
1994 ............................           70           85           65   
1995 ............................           15           70           50   
1996 ............................           15           50           40   
1997 ............................           15           50           15   
1998 ............................           15           50           15   
1999 ............................           15           50           15   
2000 ............................            0           20            0   
2001 ............................            0           20            0   
2002 and each year thereafter ...            0            0            0   



82.8  Grant and freeze of baseline production and consumption 
allowances for class II controlled substances. [Reserved]

82.9  Availability of production allowances in addition to 
baseline production allowances. 

   (a) Every person apportioned baseline production allowances 
for class I controlled substances under 82.5(a) of this subpart 
is also granted potential production allowances equal to: 
   (1) 10 percent of his apportionment under 82.5 of this subpart 
for each control period ending before January 1, 2000; and 
   (2) 15 percent of his apportionment under 82.5 of this subpart 
for each control period beginning after December 31, 1999 and 
ending before January 1, 2011 (January 1, 2013 in the case of 
methyl chloroform). 
   A person may convert potential production allowances, either 
granted under this paragraph or obtained under 82.12 (transfer 
of allowances), to production allowances only to the extent 
authorized by the Administrator under 82.11 of this subpart 
(Exports to Article 5 Parties). A person may obtain authorizations 
to convert potential production allowances to production allowances 
by requesting issuance of a notice under 82.11 of this subpart 
or by completing a transfer of authorizations under 82.12 of 
this subpart. 
   (b) A company may also increase or decrease its production 
allowances by trading with another Party to the Protocol. A 
nation listed in appendix C to this subpart (Parties to the 
Montreal Protocol) must agree either to transfer to the person 
some amount of production that the nation is permitted under 
the Montreal Protocol or to receive from the person some amount 
of production that the person is permitted under this subpart. 
   (1) For trades from a Party, the person must obtain from 
the principal diplomatic representative in that nation's embassy 
in the United States a signed document stating that the appropriate 
authority within that nation has established or revised production 
limits for the nation to equal the lesser of the maximum production 
that the nation is allowed under the Protocol minus the amount 
transferred, the maximum production that is allowed under the 
nation's applicable domestic law minus the amount transferred, 
or the average of the nation's actual national production level 
for the three years prior to the transfer minus the production 
allowances transferred. The person must submit to the Administrator 
a transfer request that includes a true copy of this document 
and that sets forth the following: 
   (i) The identity and address of the person; 
   (ii) The identity of the Party; 
   (iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons 
for the person and for the Party; 
   (iv) The chemical type and level of production being transferred; 
and
   (v) The control period(s) to which the transfer applies. 
   (2) For trades to a Party, a person must submit a transfer 
request that sets forth the following: 
   (i) The identity and address of the person; 
   (ii) The identity of the Party; 
   (iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons 
for the person and for the Party; 
   (iv) The chemical type and level of allowable production 
to be transferred; and
   (v) The control period(s) to which the transfer applies. 
   (3) After receiving a transfer request that meets the requirements 
of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Administrator may, 
at his discretion, consider the following factors in deciding 
whether to approve such a transfer: 
   (i) Possible creation of economic hardship; 
   (ii) Possible effects on trade; 
   (iii) Potential environmental implications; and 
   (iv) The total amount of unexpended production allowances 
held by United States entities. 
   (4) The Administrator will issue the person a notice either 
granting or deducting production allowances and specifying the 
control periods to which the transfer applies, provided that 
the request meets the requirement of paragraph (b)(1) of this 
section for trades from Parties and paragraphs (b)(2) of this 
section for trades to Parties, unless the Administrator has 
decided to disapprove the trade under paragraph (b)(3) of this 
section for trades to Parties. For a trade from a Party, the 
Administrator will issue a notice that revises the production 
allowances held by the person to equal the unexpended production 
allowances held by the person under this subpart plus the level 
of allowable production transferred from the Party. For a trade 
to a Party, the Administrator will issue a notice that revises 
the production limit for the person to equal the lesser of: 
   (i) The unexpended production allowances held by the person 
under this subpart minus the amount transferred; or 
   (ii) The unexpended production allowances held by the person 
under this subpart minus the amount by which the United States 
average annual production of the controlled substance being 
traded for the three years prior to the transfer is less than 
the total allowable production allowable for that substance 
under this subpart minus the amount transferred. 
   The change in production allowances will be effective on 
the date that the notice is issued. 
   (5) If after one person obtains approval for a trade of allowable 
production of a controlled substance to a Party, one or more 
other persons obtain approval for trades involving the same 
controlled substance and the same control period, the Administrator 
will issue notices revising the production limits for each of 
the other persons trading that controlled substance in that 
control period to equal the lesser of: 
   (i) The unexpended production allowances held by the person 
under this subpart minus the amount transferred; or 
   (ii) The unexpended production allowances held by the person 
under this subpart minus (the amount by which the United States 
average annual production of the controlled substance being 
traded for the three years prior to the transfer is less than 
the total allowable production for that substance under this 
subpart) multiplied by the amount transferred divided by (the 
total amount transferred by all the other persons trading the 
same controlled substance in the same control period) minus 
the amount transferred by that person. 

The Administrator will also issue a notice revising the production 
limit for each person who previously obtained approval of a 
trade of that substance in that control period to equal the 
unexpended production allowances held by the person under this 
subpart plus the amount by which the United States average annual 
production of the controlled substance being traded for the 
three years prior to the transfer is less than the total allowable 
production under this subpart multiplied by the amount transferred 
by that person divided by (the amount transferred by all of 
the persons that have traded that controlled substance in that 
control period). The change in production allowances will be 
effective on the date that the notice is issued. 

   (c) A person who does not produce a controlled substance 
in Group I, II, III or V may obtain production allowances for 
that controlled substance equal to the amount of that controlled 
substance produced in the United States that the person transforms 
in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. A request 
for production allowances under this section will be considered 
a request for consumption allowances under 82.10(b) of this 
subpart. 
   (1) A person must submit a request for production allowances 
that includes the following: 
   (i) The identity and address of the person; 
   (ii) The name, quantity, and level of class I controlled 
substance transformed; 
   (iii) A copy of the invoice or receipt documenting the sale 
of the class I controlled substance to the person; 
   (iv) The name of the person from whom the class I controlled 
substances were purchased; and 
   (v) The name, quantity, and verification of the commercial 
use of the resulting chemical. 
   (2) The Administrator will review the information and documentation 
submitted under paragraph (c)(1) of this section and will assess 
the quantity of class I controlled substance that the documentation 
and information verifies was transformed. The Administrator 
will issue the person production allowances equivalent to the 
controlled substances that the Administrator determined were 
transformed. The grant of allowances will be effective on the 
date that the notice is issued. 
   (3) If the Administrator determines that the request for 
production allowances does not satisfactorily substantiate that 
the person transformed controlled substances as claimed, the 
Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the request for 
additional production allowances. Within ten working days after 
receipt of notification, the Party may file a notice of appeal, 
with supporting reasons, with the Administrator. The Administrator 
may affirm the disallowance or grant an allowance, as he finds 
appropriate in light of the available evidence.

82.10  Availability of consumption allowances in addition to 
baseline consumption allowances. 

   (a) Any person may obtain, in accordance with the provisions 
of this paragraph, consumption allowances equivalent to the 
level of class I controlled substances that the person has exported 
from the United States and its territories to any nation listed 
in Appendix C to this subpart (Parties to the Montreal Protocol). 
The consumption allowance granted under this section will be 
valid only during the control period in which the exports departed 
the United States or its territories. 
   (1) The exporter of the class I controlled substances must 
submit to the Administrator a request for consumption allowances 
setting forth the following: 
   (i) The identities and addresses of the exporter and the 
recipient of the exports; 
   (ii) The exporter's Employer Identification Number; 
   (iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons 
for the exporter and the recipient;
   (iv) The quantity and type of controlled substances exported, 
and what percentage, if any, of the controlled substances are 
recycled or used; 
   (v) The source of the controlled substance and the date purchased; 
   (vi) The date on which and the port from which the controlled 
substances were exported from the United States or its territories; 
   (vii) The country to which the controlled substances were 
exported; 
   (viii) The bill of lading and the invoice indicating the 
net quantity of controlled substances shipped and documenting 
the sale of the controlled substances to the purchaser; and 
   (ix) The commodity code of the controlled substance exported. 
   (2) The Administrator will review the information and documentation 
submitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and will assess 
the quantity of controlled substances that the documentation 
verifies was exported. The Administrator will issue the exporter 
consumption allowances equivalent to the level of controlled 
substances that the Administrator determined was exported. The 
grant of the consumption allowances will be effective on the 
date the notice is issued. 
   (b) A person who does not produce a class I controlled substance 
in Group I, II, III or V may obtain consumption allowances for 
that controlled substance equal to the level of a controlled 
substance either produced in or imported into the United States 
that the person transformed in accordance with the provisions 
of this paragraph. 
   (1) A person must submit a request for consumption allowances 
that includes the following: 
   (i) The identity and address of the person; 
   (ii) The name and quantity of controlled substance used and 
entirely consumed in the manufacture of another chemical; 
   (iii) A copy of the invoice or receipt documenting the sale 
of the controlled substance to the person; and 
   (iv) The name, quantity, and verification of the commercial 
use of the resulting chemical. 
   (2) The Administrator will review the information and documentation 
submitted under paragraph (b)(l) of this section and will assess 
the quantity of controlled substance that the documentation 
and information verifies was transformed. The Administrator 
will issue to the person consumption allowances equivalent to 
the level of controlled substances that the Administrator determined 
was transformed. The grant of allowances will be effective on 
the date that the notice is issued. 
   (3) If the Administrator determines that the request for 
consumption allowances does not satisfactorily substantiate 
that the person transformed controlled substances as claimed, 
the Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the request 
for additional consumption allowances. Within ten working days 
after receipt of notification, the Party may file a notice of 
appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Director, Office of 
Atmospheric and Indoor Air Programs, Office of Air and Radiation. 
The Director may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal 
is taken by the tenth day after notification, the disallowance 
will be final on that day.
   (c) On the first day of each control period the Agency will 
grant consumption allowances to any person that produced and 
exported a Group IV controlled substance in the baseline year 
and that was not granted baseline consumption allowances under 
82.5 of this subpart. 
   (1) The number of consumption allowances any such person 
will be granted for each control period will be equal to the 
number of production allowances granted to that person under 
82.7 for that control period. 
   (2) Any person granted allowances under this paragraph must 
hold the same number of unexpended consumption allowances for 
the control period for which the allowances were granted by 
February 15 of the following control period. Every kilogram 
by which the person's unexpended consumption allowances fall 
short of the amount the person was granted under this paragraph 
constitutes a separate violation.

82.11  Exports to Article 5 Parties.

   In accordance with the provisions of this section, any person 
may obtain authorizations to convert potential production allowances 
to production allowances by exporting class I controlled substances 
to nations listed in appendix E to this subpart (Article 5 Parties). 
Authorizations obtained under this section will be valid only 
during the control period in which the controlled substance 
departed the United States or its territories. A request for 
authorizations under this section will be considered a request 
for consumption allowances under 82.10 of this subpart as well. 
   (a) The exporter must submit to the Administrator a request 
for authority to convert potential production allowance to production 
allowances. That request must set forth the following: 
   (1) The identities and addresses of the exporter and the 
recipient of the exports; 
   (2) The exporter's Employee Identification Number; 
   (3) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for 
the exporter and for the recipient; 
   (4) The quantity and the type of controlled substances exported, 
its source and date purchased, and what percentage, if any, 
of the controlled substances are recycled or used; 
   (5) The date on which and the port from which the controlled 
substances were exported from the United States or its territories; 
   (6) The country to which the controlled substances were exported; 
   (7) A copy of the bill of lading and invoice indicating the 
net quantity shipped and documenting the sale of the controlled 
substances to the recipient; 
   (8) The commodity code of the controlled substance exported; 
and 
   (9) A copy of the contract covering the sale of the controlled 
substances to the recipient that contains provisions forbidding 
the reexport of the controlled substance in bulk form and subjecting 
the recipient or any transferee of the recipient to liquidated 
damages equal to the resale price of the controlled substances 
if they are reexported in bulk form. 
   (b) The Administrator will review the information and documentation 
submitted under paragraph (a) of this section, and assess the 
quantity of controlled substances that the documentation verifies 
were exported to an Article 5 Party. Based on that assessment, 
the Administrator will issue the exporter a notice authorizing 
the conversion of a specified quantity of potential production 
allowances to production allowances in a specified control year, 
and granting consumption allowances in the same amount for the 
same control year. The authorizations may be used to convert 
potential production allowances to production allowances as 
soon as the date on which the notice is issued.

82.12  Transfers. 

   (a) Inter-company transfers. Any person ("transferor") may 
transfer to any other person ("transferee") any amount of the 
transferor's consumption allowances, production allowances, 
potential production allowances, or authorizations to convert 
potential production allowances to production allowances, as 
follows: 
   (1) The transferor must submit to the Administrator a transfer 
claim setting forth the following: 
   (i) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the 
transferee; 
   (ii) The name and telephone numbers of contact persons for 
the transferor and the transferee; 
   (iii) The type of allowances or authorizations being transferred, 
including the names of the controlled substances for which allowances 
are to be transferred; 
   (iv) The group of controlled substances to which the allowances 
or authorizations being transferred pertains; 
   (v) The amount of allowances or authorizations being transferred; 
   (vi) The control period(s) for which the allowances or authorizations 
are being transferred; 
   (vii) The amount of unexpended allowances or authorizations 
of the type and for the control period being transferred that 
the transferor holds under authority of this subpart as of the 
date the claim is submitted to EPA; and 
   (viii) A statement of whether the trade is for the purpose 
of reimbursing a producer or importer for allowances expended 
in the production or import of transformed controlled substances; 
and 
   (ix) The amount of the one-percent offset applied to the 
unweighted amount traded that will be deducted from the transferor's 
allowance balance (except for trades of potential production 
allowances, authorizations to convert, or trades from transformers 
to producers or importers for the purpose of allowance reimbursement). 
   (2) The Administrator will determine whether the records 
maintained by EPA, taking into account any previous transfers 
and any production, imports or exports of controlled substances 
reported by the transferor, indicate that the transferor possesses, 
as of the date the transfer claim is processed, unexpended allowances 
or authorizations sufficient to cover the transfer claim (i.e., 
the amount to be transferred plus, in the case of transferors 
of production or consumption allowances), one percent of that 
amount). Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer 
claim, the Administrator will take action to notify the transferor 
and transferee as follows: 
   (i) If EPA's records show that the transferor has sufficient 
unexpended allowances or authorizations to cover the transfer 
claim or if review of available information is insufficient 
to make a determination, the Administrator will issue a notice 
indicating that EPA does not object to the transfer and will 
reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances or 
authorizations by the amount to be transferred plus, in the 
case of transfers of production or consumption allowances, one 
percent of that amount. When EPA issues a no objection notice, 
the transferor and the transferee may proceed with the transfer. 
However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not 
have sufficient unexpended allowances or authorizations to cover 
the claim, the transferor and transferee will be held liable 
for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur 
as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer. 
   (ii) If EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient 
unexpended allowances or authorizations to cover the transfer 
claim, or that the transferor has failed to respond to one or 
more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a 
determination, the Administrator will issue a notice disallowing 
the transfer. Within 10 working days after receipt of notification, 
either party may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, 
with the Administrator. The Administrator may affirm or vacate 
the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working 
day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that 
day. 
   (3) In the event that the Administrator does not respond 
to a transfer claim within the three working days specified 
in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the transferor and transferee 
may proceed with the transfer. EPA will reduce the transferor's 
balance of unexpended allowances or authorizations by the amount 
to be transferred plus, in the case of transfers of production 
or consumption allowances, one percent of that amount. However, 
if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient 
unexpended allowances or authorizations to cover the claim, 
the transferor and transferee will be held liable for any violations 
of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, 
or in conjunction with, the improper transfer. 
   (b) Inter-pollutant conversions. Any person ("convertor") 
may convert consumption allowances, production allowances, potential 
production allowances, or authorizations to convert potential 
production allowances to production allowances for one class 
I controlled substance to the same type of allowance for another 
class I controlled substance within the group of controlled 
substances as the first as follows: 
   (1) The convertor must submit to the Administrator a conversion 
claim setting forth the following: 
   (i) The identity and address of the convertor; 
   (ii) The name and telephone number of a contact person for 
the convertor; 
   (iii) The type of allowances or authorizations being converted, 
including the names of the controlled substances for which allowances 
are to be converted; 
   (iv) The group of controlled substances to which the allowances 
or authorizations being converted pertains; 
   (v) The amount and type of allowances to be converted; 
   (vi) The amount of allowances to be subtracted from the convertor's 
unexpended allowances for the first controlled substance, to 
be equal to 101 percent of the amount of allowances converted 
(except for conversions of authorizations to convert potential 
production allowances and conversions of potential production 
allowances); 
   (vii) The amount of allowances or authorizations to be added 
to the convertor's unexpended allowances or authorizations for 
the second controlled substance, to be equal to the amount of 
allowances for the first controlled substance being converted 
multiplied by the quotient of the ozone depletion factor of 
the first controlled substance divided by the ozone depletion 
factor of the second controlled substance, as listed in appendix 
A to this subpart. 
   (viii) The control period(s) for which the allowances or 
authorizations are being converted; and 
   (ix) The amount of unexpended allowances or authorizations 
of the type and for the control period being converted that 
the convertor holds under authority of this subpart as of the 
date the claim is submitted to EPA. 
   (2) The Administrator will determine whether the records 
maintained by EPA, taking into account any previous conversions, 
any transfers, and any production, imports, or exports of controlled 
substances reported by the convertor, indicate that the convertor 
possesses, as of the date the conversion claim is processed, 
unexpended allowances or authorizations sufficient to cover 
the conversion claim (i.e., the amount to be converted plus, 
in the case of conversions of production or consumption allowances, 
one percent of that amount). Within three working days of receiving 
a complete conversion claim, the Administrator will take action 
to notify the convertor as follows: 
   (i) If EPA's records show that the convertor has sufficient 
unexpended allowances or authorizations to cover the conversion 
claim or if review of available information is insufficient 
to make a determination, the Administrator will issue a notice 
indicating that EPA does not object to the conversion and will 
reduce the convertor's balance of unexpended allowances or authorizations 
by the amount to be converted plus, in the case of conversions 
of production or consumption allowances, one percent of that 
amount. When EPA issues a no objection notice, the convertor 
may proceed with the conversion. However, if EPA ultimately 
finds that the convertor did not have sufficient unexpended 
allowances or authorizations to cover the claim, the convertor 
will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of 
this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, 
the improper conversion. 
   (ii) If EPA's records show that the convertor has insufficient 
unexpended allowances or authorizations to cover the conversion 
claim, or that the convertor has failed to respond to one or 
more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a 
determination, the Administrator will issue a notice disallowing 
the conversion. Within 10 working days after receipt of notification, 
the convertor may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, 
with the Administrator. The Administrator may affirm or vacate 
the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working 
day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that 
day. 
   (3) In the event that the Administrator does not respond 
to a conversion claim within the three working days specified 
in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the convertor may proceed 
with the conversion. EPA will reduce the convertor's balance 
of unexpended allowances by the amount to be converted plus, 
in the case of conversions of production or consumption allowances, 
one percent of that amount. However, if EPA ultimately finds 
that the convertor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances 
or authorizations to cover the claims, the convertor will be 
held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart 
that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper 
conversion. 
   (c) Inter-company transfers and Inter-pollutant conversions. 
If a person requests an inter-company transfer and an inter-
pollutant conversion simultaneously, the amount subtracted from 
the convertor-transferor's unexpended allowances for the first 
controlled substance will be equal to 101 percent of the amount 
of allowances converted and transferred in the case of transfer-
conversions of production or consumption allowances.

82.13  Record-keeping and reporting requirements. 

   (a) Unless otherwise specified, the record-keeping and reporting 
requirements set forth in this section take effect on January 
1, 1992. 
   (b) Reports and records required by this section may be used 
for purposes of compliance determinations. These requirements 
are not intended as a limitation on the use of other evidence 
admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence. 
   (c) Unless otherwise specified, reports required by this 
section must be mailed to the Administrator within 45 days of 
the end of the applicable reporting period. 
   (d) Records and copies of reports required by this section 
must be retained for three years. 
   (e) In reports required by this section, quantities of controlled 
substances must be stated in terms of kilograms. 
   (f) Every person ("producer") who will produce class I controlled 
substances during a control period must comply with the following 
record-keeping and reporting requirements: 
   (1) Within 120 days of July 30, 1992, or within 120 days 
of the date the producer first produces a class I controlled 
substance, whichever is later, every producer that has not already 
done so must submit to the Administrator a report describing: 
   (i) The method by which the producer in practice measures 
daily quantities of class I controlled substances produced; 
   (ii) Conversion factors by which the daily records as currently 
maintained can be converted into kilograms of controlled substances 
produced, including any constants or assumptions used in making 
those calculations (e.g., tank specifications, ambient temperature 
or pressure, density of the controlled substance); 
   (iii) Internal accounting procedures for determining plant-
wide production; 
   (iv) The quantity of any fugitive losses accounted for in 
the production figures; and 
   (v) The estimated percent efficiency of the production process 
for the controlled substance. 

Within 60 days of any change in the measurement procedures or 
the information specified in the above report, the producer 
must submit a report specifying the revised data or procedures 
to the Administrator. 

   (2) Every person that produced class I controlled substances 
as by-products and did not destroy them with MACT in 1989 but 
did not report this production in response to previous information 
request must supply EPA with the information previously requested 
on or before September 14, 1992. 
   (3) Every producer must maintain the following: 
   (i) Dated records of the quantity of each of the class I 
controlled substances produced at each facility; 
   (ii) Dated records of the quantity of Group IV class I controlled 
substances produced for feedstock use at each facility; 
   (iii) Dated records of the quantity of class I controlled 
substances used as feedstocks in the manufacture of controlled 
substances and in the manufacture of non-controlled substances 
and any class I controlled substance introduced into the production 
process of the same controlled substance at each facility; 
   (iv) Dated records identifying the quantity of each chemical 
not a controlled substance produced within each facility also 
producing one or more class I controlled substances; 
   (v) Dated records of the quantity of raw materials and feedstock 
chemicals used at each facility for the production of controlled 
substances; 
   (vi) Dated records of the shipments of class I controlled 
substances produced at each plant; 
   (vii) The quantity of class I controlled substances, the 
date received, and names and addresses of the source of recyclable 
or recoverable materials containing class I controlled substances 
which are recovered at each plant; 
   (viii) Records of the date, the class I controlled substance, 
and the estimated quantity of any spill or release of a class 
I controlled substance that equals or exceeds 100 pounds; and 
   (ix) Dated records documenting the sale of Group IV controlled 
substances for feedstock. 
   (4) For each quarter, each producer must provide the Administrator 
with a report containing the following information: 
   (i) The production by plant in that quarter of each class 
I controlled substance, specifying the quantity of any class 
I controlled substance used for feedstock purposes for controlled 
and noncontrolled substances for each plant and totaled by class 
I controlled substance for all plants owned by the producer; 
   (ii) The amount of production for feedstock of Group IV controlled 
substances, by plant; 
   (iii) The levels of production (expended allowances) for 
all class I controlled substances for each plant and totaled 
for all plants for that quarter and totaled for the control 
period to date; 
   (iv) From each plant, the total shipments of each class I 
controlled substance produced at that plant in the quarter; 
   (v) The producer's total of expended and unexpended consumption 
allowances, potential production allowances, production allowances, 
and authorizations to convert potential production allowances 
to production allowances, as of the end of that quarter; 
   (vi) The quantity, the date received, and names and addresses 
of the source of recyclable or recoverable materials containing 
the class I controlled substance which are recovered at each 
plant; 
   (vii) The amount of Group IV controlled substances sold to 
each person for feedstock during the quarter; and 
   (viii) Internal Revenue Service Certificates showing that 
the purchaser of Group IV controlled substances for feedstock 
use intends to transform the Group IV controlled substances. 
   (5) For any person who fails to maintain the records required 
by this paragraph, or to submit the report required by this 
paragraph, the Administrator may assume that the person has 
produced at full capacity during the period for which records 
were not kept, for purposes of determining whether the person 
has violated the prohibitions at 82.4 of this subpart. 
   (g) Importers of class I controlled substances during a control 
period must comply with the following record-keeping and reporting 
requirements: 
   (1) Any importer must maintain the following records: 
   (i) The quantity of each class I controlled substance imported, 
either alone or in mixtures, including the percentage of the 
mixture which consists of class I controlled substances; 
   (ii) The date on which the controlled substances were imported; 
   (iii) The port of entry through which the controlled substances 
passed; 
   (iv) The country from which the imported controlled substances 
were imported; 
   (v) The port of exit; 
   (vi) The commodity code for the controlled substances shipped; 
   (vii) The importer number for the shipment; 
   (viii) A copy of the bill of lading for the import; 
   (ix) The invoice for the import; 
   (x) The U.S. Customs Entry Summary Form; and 
   (xi) Dated records documenting the sale of Group IV controlled 
substances for feedstock. 
   (2) For each quarter, every importer must submit to the Administrator 
a report containing the following information: 
   (i) Summaries of the records required in paragraphs (g)(1) 
(i) through (vii) of this section for the previous quarter; 
   (ii) The total quantity imported in kilograms of each class 
I controlled substance for that quarter; 
   (iii) The levels of import (expended consumption allowances) 
of class I controlled substances for that quarter and totaled 
by chemical for the control-period-to-date; and 
   (iv) The importer's total sum of expended and unexpended 
consumption allowances by chemical as of the end of that quarter; 
   (v) The amount of Group IV controlled substances imported 
for feedstock during the quarter; 
   (vi) The amount of Group IV controlled substances sold to 
each person for feedstock during the quarter; and 
   (vii) Internal Revenue Service Certificates showing that 
the purchaser of Group IV controlled substances for feedstock 
use intends to transform the Group IV controlled substances. 
   (h) For any exports of class I controlled substances not 
reported under 82.10 of this subpart (additional consumption 
allowances) or 82.11 of this subpart (Exports to Parties), 
the exporter who exported the class I controlled substances 
must submit to the Administrator the following information within 
45 days after the end of the control period in which the unreported 
exports left the United States: 
   (1) The names and addresses of the exporter and the recipient 
of the exports; 
   (2) The exporter's Employee Identification Number; 
   (3) The type and quantity of class I controlled substances 
exported and what percentage, if any, of the controlled substances 
are recycled or used; 
   (4) The date on which and the port from which the controlled 
substances were exported from the United States or its territories; 
   (5) The country to which the controlled substances were exported; 
and 
   (6) The commodity code of the controlled substance shipped. 
   (i) Every person who has requested additional production 
allowances under 82.9(c) of this subpart or consumption allowances 
under 82.10(c) of this subpart or who transforms Group IV controlled 
substances not produced by him or her must maintain the following: 
   (1) Dated records of the quantity and level of controlled 
substance used and entirely consumed in the manufacture of another 
chemical; 
   (2) Copies of the invoices or receipts documenting the sale 
of the controlled substance to the person; 
   (3) Dated records of the names, commercial use, and quantities 
of the resulting chemical(s); 
   (4) Dated records of shipments to purchasers of the resulting 
chemical(s); 
   (5) For transformers of Group IV controlled substances, dated 
records of all shipments of Group IV controlled substances received 
and the identity of the producer or importer of the Group IV 
controlled substances; and 
   (6) For transformers of Group IV controlled substances, dated 
records inventories of Group IV controlled substances at each 
plant on the first day of each quarter. 
   (j) For every quarter, within 45 days after the end of the 
quarter, every person who transforms Group IV chemicals not 
produced by him or her must report the following: 
   (1) The name and address of the person and the name and telephone 
number of a contact person; 
   (2) The names and addresses of the persons that produced 
or imported the Group IV controlled substances that he or she 
has purchased and transformed and the name and telephone number 
of a contact person; 
   (3) The address of the facility at which the transformation 
took place; 
   (4) The name of the chemical produced as a result of the 
transformation and the verification of its commercial use; and 
   (5) By source in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, the amounts 
of Group IV controlled substances transformed by the person. 
   (k) For every control period, every person receiving an exemption 
for CUBP controlled substances in Groups IV and V must maintain 
the following information on site: 
   (1) Dated records of the quantity of the CUBP carbon tetrachloride 
and methyl chloroform produced at the facility; and 
   (2) Dated records of the quantity of the CUBP controlled 
substance destroyed at the facility or shipped from there to 
an off-site destruction facility. 
   (l) Every person who produces, imports, or exports class 
II chemicals must report its annual level of production, imports, 
and exports of these chemicals within 45 days of the end of 
each control period.

Appendix A to Subpart A-Class I Controlled Substances 


                                                                              
                                                                              

                                                                    Ozone    
                       Controlled substance                        deplet   
                                                                     ion    
                                                                    weight   

                                                                             
                            A. Group I                                       
                                                                             
CFCl3-Trichlorofluoromethane (CFC-11)............................      1.0   
CCl2F2-Dichlorodifluoromethane (CFC-12)..........................      1.0   
CCl2F-CClF2-Trichlorotrifluoroethane (CFC-113)...................      0.8   
CF2Cl-Cclf2-Dichlorotetrafluoroethane (CFC-114)..................      1.0   
CClF2-CF3-(Mono) chloropentafluoroethane (CFC-115) ..............      0.6   
All isomers of the above chemicals                                           
                           B. Group II                                       
                                                                             
CF2BrCl-Bromochlorodifluoromethane (halon 1211)..................      3.0   
CF3Br-Bromotrifluoromethane (halon 1301).........................     10.0   
C2F4Br2-Dibromotetrafluoroethane (halon 2402)....................      6.0   
All isomers of the above chemicals                                           
                           C. Group III                                      
                                                                             
CF3Cl-Chlorotrifluoromethane (CFC-13)............................      1.0   
C2FCl5 (CFC-111).................................................      1.0   
C2F2Cl4-(CFC-112)................................................      1.0   
C3FCl7-(CFC-211).................................................      1.0   
C3F2Cl6-(CFC-212)................................................      1.0   
C3F3Cl5-(CFC-213)................................................      1.0   
C3F4Cl4-(CFC-214)................................................      1.0   
C3F5Cl3-(CFC-215)................................................      1.0   
C3F6Cl2-(CFC-216)................................................      1.0   
C3F7Cl-(CFC-217).................................................      1.0   
All isomers of the above chemicals                                           
                           D. Group IV                                       
                                                                             
CCI4-Carbon Tetrachloride .......................................      1.1   
                            E. Group V                                       
                                                                             
C2H3Cl3-1,1,1-Trichloroethane (Methyl chloroform)................       .1   
All isomers of the above chemical, except for 1,1,2-                         
 trichloroethane.                                                            



Appendix B to Subpart A-Class II Controlled Substances 


                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
CHFCl2-Dichlorofluoromethane                                                  
  (HCFC-21)..........................................................  ({1})  
CHF2Cl-Chlorodifluoromethane                                                  
  (HCFC-22)..........................................................   0.05  
CH2FCl-Chlorofluoromethane                                                    
  (HCFC-31)..........................................................  ({1})  
C2HFCl4-                                                                      
  (HCFC-121).........................................................  ({1})  
C2HF2Cl3                                                                      
  (HCFC-122).........................................................  ({1})  
C2HF3Cl2-                                                                     
  (HCFC-123).........................................................   0.02  
C2HF4Cl-                                                                      
  (HCFC-124).........................................................   0.02  
C2H2FCl3-                                                                     
  (HCFC-131).........................................................  ({1})  
C2H2F2Cl2-                                                                    
  (HCFC-132b)........................................................  ({1})  
C2H2F3Cl-                                                                     
  (HCFC-133a)........................................................  ({1})  
C2H3FCl2-                                                                     
  (HCFC-141b)........................................................   0.12  
C2H3F2Cl-                                                                     
  (HCFC-142b)........................................................   0.06  
C3HFCl6-                                                                      
  (HCFC-221).........................................................  ({1})  
C3HF2Cl5-                                                                     
  (HCFC-222).........................................................  ({1})  
C3HF3Cl4-                                                                     
  (HCFC-223).........................................................  ({1})  
C3HF4Cl3-                                                                     
  (HCFC-224).........................................................  ({1})  
C3HF5Cl2-                                                                     
  (HCFC-225ca).......................................................  ({1})  
  (HCFC-225cb).......................................................  ({1})  
C3HF6Cl-                                                                      
  (HCFC-226).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H2FCl5-                                                                     
  (HCFC-231).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H2F2Cl4-                                                                    
  (HCFC-232).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H2F3Cl3-                                                                    
  (HCFC-233).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H2F4Cl2-                                                                    
  (HCFC-234).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H2F5Cl-                                                                     
  (HCFC-235).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H3FCl4-                                                                     
  (HCFC-241).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H3F2Cl3-                                                                    
  (HCFC-242).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H3F3Cl2-                                                                    
  (HCFC-243).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H3F4Cl-                                                                     
  (HCFC-244).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H4FCl3-                                                                     
  (HCFC-251).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H4F2Cl2-                                                                    
  (HCFC-252).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H4F3Cl-                                                                     
  (HCFC-253).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H5FCl2-                                                                     
  (HCFC-261).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H5F2Cl-                                                                     
  (HCFC-262).........................................................  ({1})  
C3H6FCl-                                                                      
  (HCFC-271).........................................................  ({1})  
All isomers of the above chemicals ..................................  ({1})  
  {1}Reserved.                                                                


Appendix C to Subpart A-Parties to the Montreal Protocol 

   Parties to the Montreal Protocol: Argentina, Australia, Austria, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Botswana (3/3/92), Brazil, Bulgaria, 
Burkina Faso, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, 
Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Cyprus (8/26/92), Czechoslovakia, 
Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, European Economic Community, Fiji, 
Finland, France, Gambia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, 
Guinea (9/23/92), Hungary, Iceland, India (9/17/92), Indonesia 
(9/24/92), Iran, Ireland, Israel (9/28/92), Italy, Japan, Jordan, 
Kenya, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malawi, 
Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic 
of Korea (5/27/92), Russian Federation, Singapore, South Africa, 
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, United Arab Emirates, United 
Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, 
Zambia.

Appendix D to Subpart A-Nations Complying With, But Not Parties 
to, the Protocol [reserved]


Appendix E to Subpart A-Article 5 Parties 

   Argentina, Bangladesh, Botswana (3/3/92), Brazil, Burkina 
Faso, Cameroon, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Cyprus (8/26/92), 
Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea (9/23/92), 
India (9/23/92), Indonesia (9/24/92), Iran, Jordan, Kenya, Libyan 
Arab Jamahiriya, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Nigeria, 
Panama, Philippines, Republic of Korea (5/27/92), Sri Lanka, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Turkey, Uganda, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

[FR Doc. 92-17661 Filed 7-29-92; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6560-50-M



